(registered 2017-03-31)

IMAP keyword name:
$Phishing

Purpose (description):
Phishing emails are a particularly pernicious problem and unfortunately
many users are tricked by them into revealing private passwords and
other personal information. Many delivery agents may be able to detect
emails as likely phishing emails either at delivery time or shortly
afterwards, but flagging them as $Junk and moving them to the users
\Junk special-use folder may not be enough. If they look legitimate
enough, users may think they were incorrectly identified as junk and
still click on the links in them believing that they are legitimate and
that the marking as junk was a false positive error.

The $Phishing keyword can be used by a delivery agent to mark a message
as highly likely to be a phishing email. An email that’s determined to
be a phishing email by the delivery agent should also be considered a
junk email and have the appropriate junk filtering applied, including
setting the $Junk flag and placing in the \Junk special-use mailbox if
available.

If both the $Phishing flag and the $Junk flag are set, the user agent
should display an additional warning message to the user. User agents
should not use the term "phishing" in their warning message as most
users do not understand this term. Phrasing of the form "this message
may be trying to steal your personal information" is recommended.
Additionally the user agent may display a warning when clicking on any
hyperlinks within the message.

The requirement for both $Phishing and $Junk to be set before a user
agent displays a warning is for better backwards compatibility with
existing clients that understand the $Junk flag but not the $Phishing
flag. This so that when an unextended client removes the $Junk flag, an
extended client will also show the correct state.

Private or Shared on a server:
SHARED (see Note 1)

Is it an advisory keyword or may it cause an automatic action:
This keyword is advisory.

When/by whom the keyword is set/cleared:
$Phishing will mostly be set by a delivery agent. A mail
client may set the flag if it supports a “Report phishing” type
action. If a user marks a message as not junk, the $Phishing
flag should also be removed.

Related keywords:
$Junk and $NotJunk

Related IMAP capabilities:
RFC6154 IMAP LIST Extension for Special-Use Mailboxes

Security considerations:
False positive detection of a phishing email by a delivery agent
is always possible so user agents should never fully stop users
being able to view a message or click through on links in the
message.

Published specification (recommended):

Person & email address to contact for further information:
Rob Mueller <robm&fastmail.com>

Intended usage: COMMON

Owner/Change controller: IESG

1). Unlike junk where people may have different ideas of
what email might be considered junk or not junk, and as
it’s expected that mostly delivery agents will set this
flag, this should be a shared flag.