A. Submission Date: 2018-11-07

B.1 Submission Type:  [X] New RRTYPE  [ ] Modification to RRTYPE
B.2 Kind of RR:  [X] Data RR  [ ] Meta-RR

C. Contact Information for submitter (will be publicly posted):
   Name: Duane Wessels              Email Address: dwessels&verisign.com
   International telephone number: +1 208-301-2319
   Other contact handles:

D. Motivation for the new RRTYPE application.
   Please keep this part at a high level to inform the Expert and
   reviewers about uses of the RRTYPE.  Most reviewers will be DNS
   experts that may have limited knowledge of your application space.

   ZONEMD is an experimental protocol and new DNS Resource
   Record that can be used to provide a message digest over DNS zone
   data.  The ZONEMD Resource Record conveys the message digest data in
   the zone itself.  When a zone publisher includes an ZONEMD record,
   recipients can verify the zone contents for accuracy and
   completeness.  This provides assurance that received zone data
   matches published data, regardless of how the zone data has been
   transmitted and received.

E. Description of the proposed RR type.
   This description can be provided in-line in the template, as an
   attachment, or with a publicly available URL.

   Please refer to draft-wessels-dns-zone-digest-05.txt, attached.

F. What existing RRTYPE or RRTYPEs come closest to filling that need
   and why are they unsatisfactory?

   The DS RRTYPE is somewhat similar to the proposed ZONEMD, in that
   both have digest algorithms and digest values as their RDATA.
   However, DS has specific use for DNSSEC chain of trust and lacks
   certain fields needed for ZONEMD.

G. What mnemonic is requested for the new RRTYPE (optional)?

   Note: If a mnemonic is not supplied, not allowed, or duplicates an
   existing RRTYPE or CLASS mnemonic, the Expert will assign a
   mnemonic.

   ZONEMD

H. Does the requested RRTYPE make use of any existing IANA registry
   or require the creation of a new IANA subregistry in DNS
   Parameters?  If so, please indicate which registry is to be used
   or created.  If a new subregistry is needed, specify the
   allocation policy for it and its initial contents.  Also include
   what the modification procedures will be.

   The current revision of draft-wessels-dns-zone-digest proposes the
   creation of a new "ZONEMD Digest Types" registry, as described in
   its section 6.

   Earlier revisions proposed using the DS Digest Algorithms registry
   for ZONEMD, but recent discussions on the dnsop are against that
   idea.
   

I. Does the proposal require/expect any changes in DNS
   servers/resolvers that prevent the new type from being processed
   as an unknown RRTYPE (see [RFC3597])?

   No.

J. Comments: