              DNS RRTYPE PARAMETER ALLOCATION TEMPLATE

When ready for formal consideration, this template is to be submitted
to IANA for processing by emailing the template to dns-rrtype-applications&ietf.org

A. Submission Date:
   2024-07-03

B.1 Submission Type:  [x] New RRTYPE  [ ] Modification to RRTYPE
B.2 Kind of RR:  [ ] Data RR  [x] Meta-RR

C. Contact Information for submitter (will be publicly posted):
   Name: Shumon Huque             Email Address: shuque&gmail.com
   International telephone number: +1 (888) 726-7835
   Other contact handles:

D. Motivation for the new RRTYPE application.
   Please keep this part at a high level to inform the Expert and
   reviewers about uses of the RRTYPE.  Most reviewers will be DNS
   experts that may have limited knowledge of your application space.

   Meta/Pseudo RR type to indicate an NXDOMAIN response in the
   NSEC type bitmap field of Compact Denial of Existence.

   For details, see:
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-dnsop-compact-denial-of-existence/

   This protocol has already been deployed in the field with
   private RR types. A formal early allocation is now requested,
   as the specification is stable, and other planned implementers
   are awaiting an official allocation of the codepoint.

E. Description of the proposed RR type.
   This description can be provided in-line in the template, as an
   attachment, or with a publicly available URL.

   From the above mentioned draft:

	This document defines the use of a synthetic Resource Record type to
	signal the presence of a non-existent name.  The mnemonic for this RR
	type is "NXNAME", chosen to clearly distinguish it from the response
	code mnemonic NXDOMAIN.

	      Type    Value  Meaning
	      NXNAME  128  NXDOMAIN indicator for Compact Denial of Existence

	This RR type is added to the NSEC type bitmap for responses to non-
	existent names (in addition to the required RRSIG and NSEC types).
	It is a "Meta-Type", as defined in [RFC6895], stores no data in a DNS
	zone, and cannot be usefully queried.

   From the IANA considerations section of the draft:

	IANA is requested to do the following:

	Allocate a new DNS Resource Record type code for NXNAME in the DNS
	parameters registry, from the meta type range.  Specifically, the
	lowest available number (currently 128) in the meta range is
	requested to be allocated.  A lower number lowers the size of the
	type bitmap, which reduces the size of the DNS response message.

	      Type    Value  Meaning
	      NXNAME  128  NXDOMAIN indicator for Compact Denial of Existence

F. What existing RRTYPE or RRTYPEs come closest to filling that need
   and why are they unsatisfactory?

   None.

G. What mnemonic is requested for the new RRTYPE (optional)?

   Note: If a mnemonic is not supplied, not allowed, or duplicates an
   existing RRTYPE or CLASS mnemonic, the Expert will assign a
   mnemonic.

   NXNAME

   Quoting from the draft:

	"The mnemonic for this RR
	type is "NXNAME", chosen to clearly distinguish it from the response
	code mnemonic NXDOMAIN."

H. Does the requested RRTYPE make use of any existing IANA registry
   or require the creation of a new IANA subregistry in DNS
   Parameters?  If so, please indicate which registry is to be used
   or created.  If a new subregistry is needed, specify the
   allocation policy for it and its initial contents.  Also include
   what the modification procedures will be.

   No.

I. Does the proposal require/expect any changes in DNS
   servers/resolvers that prevent the new type from being processed
   as an unknown RRTYPE (see [RFC3597])?

   No, or not relevant.
   This is a meta-type that stores no data in the DNS.

J. Comments:

   None. 