Media Type name: application

Subtype name: Standards Tree - 3gpdash-qoe-report+xml

Required parameters:
None

Optional parameters:
charset: If a charset parameter is provided its value must be "utf-8".

Encoding considerations: 8bit
The utf-8 charset is always used for this type.

Security considerations:
The general XML security issues are addressed in clause 10 of RFC 3023 [83].
The Quality of Experience (QoE) report XML document instances contain information about what content, services and files a particular User Equipment (UE) has received. The information also has privacy relevance as it reveals what a specific receiver, which usually can be connected to a specific user, has received. 
This media type only contains quality of experience data; there is no defined executable content.

XML from other vocabularies is allowed in this media type. Such material will have its own security considerations.

If operating in an insecure environment and required by the content/service provider, elements and attributes of the report may be encrypted to protect their confidentiality.
If operating in an insecure environment and required by the content/service provider, digital signing and verification procedures may be used to protect data origin authenticity and integrity of the report.
Thus to prevent manipulation of that information it would need to be integrity protected. 

Interoperability considerations:
None

Published specification:
3GPP TS 26.247

Applications which use this media type:
3GPP DASH based applications
3GPP progressive download applications

Fragment identifier considerations: 
None 

Additional information: 
1. Deprecated alias names for this type : none 
2. Magic number(s) : none 
3. File extension(s) : none 
4. Macintosh file type code : none 
5. Object Identifiers: none 

Person & email address to contact for further information:
Ozgur Oyman (ozgur.oyman&intel.com)
3GPP TSG SA WG4

Intended usage: COMMON

Restrictions on usage:
None

Author:
3GPP TSG SA WG4

Change controller:
3GPP TSG SA WG4