(registered 2014-11-11, last updated 2014-11-11)

Name : Thomas Thomsen

Email : thomas.thomsen&asam.net

MIME media type name : Application

MIME subtype name : Standards Tree - AML

Required parameters : N/A

Optional parameters :
N/A

Encoding considerations : binary (UTF-8, UTF-16, UTF-32)


Security considerations :
AML is a formal description language for the description of non-standardized, interface-specific parameter consumed by application system drivers. Such parameter are transferred as a binary block; the AML file describes the format of such blocks.

Any security considerations which apply to Text/Plain also apply to AML. The format is defined via a BNF notation, which does not allow for the inclusion of executable content that could modify files or other resources on the host system.

The AML format does not itself provide integrity or privacy protections. If such protection is needed it must be supplied externally.

Interoperability considerations :


Published specification :
ASAM MCD-2 MC (ASAP2)

Applications which use this media :
The AML format is used in applications, which are involved in the creation, processing, storage and exchange of measurements data and calibratable parameters of automotive ECUs. Especially applications for the ECU development and test phases are in focus of this format. Such applications are:
- calibration systems (aka application systems)
- editors
- checkers
- run-time systems
- ECU interface development and diagnostic (e.g. XCP) tools
- code generators
- rapid control prototyping tools
- data loggers

Additional information :

1. Magic number(s) : N/A
2. File extension(s) : aml
3. Macintosh file type code : N/A
4. Object Identifiers: N/A

For more information on the standard ASAM MCD-2 MC (ASAP2) and the AML file format, please visit www.asam.net.

Person to contact for further information :

1. Name : Thomas Thomsen
2. Email : thomas.thomsen&asam.net

Intended usage : Common


Author/Change controller : ASAM (info&asam.net)