(registered 2020-03-18, last updated 2020-03-18)

Type name: application

Subtype name: atsc-dynamic-event-message

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters: N/A

Encoding considerations: binary

   This media type may require non-transparent transfer encoding 
   (such as base64 or Quoted-Printable) on transports not capable of 
   handling binary.

Security considerations: This media type identifies a dynamic event 
   message, which is used to deliver a stream of dynamic events, such 
   as a list of updated signaling tables. Events themselves are 
   notifications saying that some action needs to be taken.

   Since actions can cause receivers to behave in fairly arbitrary 
   ways, both integrity protection and source authentication, as 
   referenced in A/336 Section 5.4, are required to prevent 
   misleading of processors.

   This media type does not provide any confidentiality protection 
   and instead relies on the transport protocol that carries it to 
   provide such security. These protocols are referenced in A/336 
   Section 5.4.

   Dynamic event messages are retrieved from an event server by 
   dereferencing a URL that is constructed by the Receiver using the 
   process defined in A/344 Section 5.4 and is in a domain specified 
   and administered under authority of ATSC. The only domain 
   currently allowed is vp1.tv, as defined in A/336 Table 5.20. This 
   mitigates additional general security considerations , as 
   signaling resulting in an atsc-dynamic-event-message can only be 
   resolved to a server having a valid, active registration with the 
   VP1 Registrar. In addition to this, processors should make every 
   effort to validate the origin against other transport signaling, 
   if present.

Interoperability considerations: ATSC A/336 specifies the format of 
   conforming messages and the interpretation thereof.

Published specification: This media type registration is an integral 
   part of ATSC A/336, “Content Recovery in Redistribution 
   Scenarios”, Annex E. The payload is defined in Section 5.1.8 of 
   that document. This specification is available at 
   www.atsc.org/standards.

Applications that use this media type: ATSC 3.0 television and 
   Internet encoders, decoders and other facility and consumer 
   equipment.

Additional information: N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:
   Editor, Advanced Television Systems Committee (jwhitaker&atsc.org)

Intended usage: COMMON

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Author: ATSC.

Change controller: ATSC.