(registered 2019-10-14, last updated 2019-10-14)

Type name: application

Subtype name: atsc-rdt+json

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters: N/A

Encoding considerations: binary
   Constrained to UTF-8. See RFC 8259, Section 8.1.

Security considerations: This media type inherits the issues common
   to all JSON media types - see RFC 8259, Section 12.

   This media format is used to describe broadcast and broadband
   services. This format is highly susceptible to manipulation or
   spoofing for attacks desiring to mislead a receiver about a URL
   for signaling, reporting, or other services. Both integrity
   protection and source authentication are recommended to prevent
   misleading of processors. This type does not employ executable
   content, but since it is explicitly extensible then executable
   content could appear in an extension.

   This media type does not provide any confidentiality protection
   and instead relies on the transport protocol that carries it to
   provide such security, if needed.

   This media type also includes URL references which if present
   must be dereferenced in order to properly interpret the content.

   This creates additional general security considerations. Decoders
   should make every effort to validate the origin against other
   transport signaling, if present.

Interoperability considerations: ATSC A/336 specifies the format of
   conforming messages and the interpretation thereof.

Published specification: This media type registration is an integral
   part of ATSC A/336, “Content Recovery in Redistribution
   Scenarios”, Annex E. The payload is defined in Section 5.4.3 of
   that document. This specification, which contains the JSON schema
   for the content in Annex B, is available at
   www.atsc.org/standards.

Applications that use this media type: ATSC 3.0 television and
   Internet encoders, decoders and other facility and consumer
   equipment.

Additional information: N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Editor, Advanced Television Systems Committee (jwhitaker&atsc.org)

Intended usage: COMMON

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Author: ATSC.

Change controller: ATSC.