(registered 2022-07-26, last updated 2022-07-26)

Type name: application

Subtype name: automationml-aml+xml

Required parameters: n/a

Optional parameters: n/a

Encoding considerations: 8-bit text (this media type may require 
   encoding on transports not capable of handling 8-bit text). Same 
   as for application/xml. See RFC 7303, section 3.2 or its 
   successors.

Security considerations: See RFC 3023 section 10 (or its successors) 
   for XML media types.

   AutomationML models can reference resources by using URIs. In this 
   case, the security considerations of RFC 3986 section 7 (or its 
   successors) do apply.

Interoperability considerations: The structure of an AutomationML 
   file can be validated by using the corresponding XML schema. The 
   schema version to be used is given in the root element of the file.

Published specification: "AutomationML" is defined in the IEC 62714 
   series “Engineering data exchange format for use in industrial 
   automation systems engineering".

Applications that use this media type: "AutomationML" is used by 
   automation engineering software tools like e.g. ECAD, MCAD, PLC 
   Programming.

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Additional information:

   Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A 
   Magic number(s): N/A 
   File extension(s): .aml 
   Macintosh file type code(s): "TEXT"
   Object Identifier(s) or OID(s): N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information: 

   AutomationML e.V <office&automationml.org>

Intended usage: COMMON

   The intended use of AutomationML (.aml) and its container format
   (.amlx) is the data exchange of engineering data between 
   engineering software tools from different phases of the life cycle 
   of a technical system, over all automation related disciplines and 
   different vendors, to cover the needs of Industry 4.0.

Restrictions on usage: None

Author/Change controller: AutomationML e.V. (www.automationml.org)

Comments: The goal of the AutomationML e.V. (association) is the 
   dissemination and further development of the AutomationML data 
   format as an open, neutral and free industrial standard for the 
   cross-company and interdisciplinary exchange of planning data for 
   plants in the manufacturing and process industry.