(registered 2021-12-15, last updated 2022-04-13)

Media type name: application

Media subtype name: cda+xml

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters:

   charset - has the same meaning as for text/xml (see RFC 7303 
   section 3), If present, this must have the value "UTF-8".

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations: The content that may be carried in the Hl7V2 
   media type includes Protected Health Information, information that 
   identifies individuals (including genetic sequences), executable 
   code, XHTML and billing and claiming information. Exchanging this 
   kind of information carries many kinds of security risks to the 
   systems that handle, store and administer the media. HL7 provides 
   a standardized way of exchanging requirements for restrictions as 
   well as identifying the data affected by privacy law and 
   confidentiality rules. HL7 has developed the HL7 Healthcare 
   Privacy and Security Classification System (HCS), Release 1
   (see: http://www.hl7.org/implement/standards/product_brief.cfm?product_id=345) 
   which can be used in several v2 segments. This format supports the 
   option to have embedded digital signatures to provide 
   non-repudiation and origin authentication. Additionally, HL7 
   messages in this format can be digitally signed using externalized 
   mechanisms that don't need to be embedded within the artifact.

   As an XML-based type, this media type inherits the security 
   considerations of XML -- see RFC 7303 section 10.

Interoperability considerations: HL7 Version 3 Clinical Document 
   Architecture (CDA®) is designed to enable clinical information 
   exchange between providers and patients within the healthcare 
   domain. CDA is a document markup standard that specifies the 
   structure and semantics of "clinical documents" for the purpose of 
   exchange between healthcare providers and patients. It defines a 
   clinical document as having the following six characteristics: 1) 
   Persistence, 2) Stewardship, 3) Potential for authentication, 4) 
   Context, 5) Wholeness and 6) Human readability. A CDA can contain 
   any type of clinical content -- typical CDA documents would be a 
   Discharge Summary, Imaging Report, Admission & Physical, Pathology 
   Report and more. The most popular use is for inter-enterprise 
   information exchange, such as is envisioned for a US Health 
   Information Exchange (HIE). Currently, over 150,000,000 documents 
   using the CDA format are exchanged each month.

Published specification:
   http://www.hl7.org/implement/standards/product_brief.cfm?product_id=7

Applications which use this media: Many 100s of applications across 
   healthcare, including hospital and post acute care EHRs, health 
   information exchanges, laboratory information systems and 
   diagnostic testing systems, patient facing applications (PHRs), 
   public health, clinical registries, payer organizations, and all 
   types of systems that provide community based support and services.

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Additional information:

   1. Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A
   2. Magic number(s): N/A
   3. File extension(s): N/A
   4. Macintosh file type code: N/A
   5. Object Identifiers: N/A

General Comments:


Person to contact for further information:

   1. Name: Marc Duteau
   2. Email: Marc&hl7.org

Intended usage: Common

   Used for exchange of data in healthcare-related applications

Author/Change controller: Health Level Seven International (HL7) 
   (http://hl7.org)