(registered via RFC-ietf-cdni-media-type-06)

Type name: application

Subtype name: cdni

Required parameters:

   ptype

      The required parameter "ptype" describes the type of CDNI
      message contained in the message payload, as registered in the
      "Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI) Parameters" 
      registry (Section 2.2) defined below.

Optional parameters: none

Encoding considerations:

   The CDNI protocol suite includes interfaces with encoded messages
   that may be 8bit or binary, as well as generic logging
   information that may be 7bit or binary.

Security considerations:

   CDNI interfaces that return encoded data may be (mis)interpreted
   if parsed by non-CDNI or non-compliant CDNI implementations.  In
   addition, CDNI logging information is likely to transfer large
   amounts of data that may overload unexpecting clients.  The
   individual CDNI interface specifications provide more detailed
   analysis of security and privacy concerns, and define the
   requirements for authentication, authorization, confidentiality,
   integrity, and privacy for each interface.

   The application/cdni media type is a generic media type to be used
   by multiple CDNI interfaces for transporting different types of
   control and logging information.  Proper validation of message
   data requires parsing and understanding the ptype parameter and
   the associated data encoding.  Failure to properly validate
   payloads may allow data extrusion under the auspices of the
   application/cdni media type.

Interoperability considerations:

   The required ptype field is intended to fully describe the
   structure and parsing of CDNI messages, as enforced by the ptype
   registry designated expert.

Published specification: RFC-ietf-cdni-media-type-06

Applications that use this media type:

   CDNI is intended for use between interconnected CDNs for sharing
   configuration and logging data, as well as for issuing content
   management and redirection requests.  

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Additional information: N/A

   Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A

   Magic number(s): N/A

   File extension(s): N/A

   Macintosh file type code(s): N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

   Kevin Ma <kevin.j.ma&ericsson.com>

Intended usage: LIMITED USE

Restrictions on usage:

   This media type is intended only for use in CDNI protocol message
   exchanges.

Author: IETF CDNI working group

Change controller: IETF CDNI working group

Provisional registration: no