(RFC 4708 published October 2006, subtype last updated October 2006)

MIME media type name: application

MIME subtype name: cellml+xml

Mandatory parameters: none

Optional parameters: charset

The charset parameter of application/cellml+xml is handled in the
same fashion as for application/xml, as specified in Section 3.2
of [RFC3023]. However, per conformance rule 4 of
[CELLML-UMBRELLA], valid CellML Umbrella documents MUST be in the
UTF-8 character set. If the charset parameter is present, it MUST
take the value "utf-8". CellML processing software SHOULD check
the charset field, and if it is present but not equal to "utf-8",
MAY attempt to recover from the error by processing the document
in the specified character set.

Encoding considerations: As per Section 3.2 of [RFC3023].

Security considerations: As per Section 5 of this document.

Interoperability considerations: As per Section 4.1 of this document.

Published specification:

CellML Umbrella Specification [CELLML-UMBRELLA].

Applications that use this media type: As per Section 4.2 of this
document.

Additional information:

Magic number(s): None.
XML processing software can identify CellML Umbrella documents
as XML documents that contain a document element with the local
name "model".

File extension(s):
The RECOMMENDED file extension for CellML Umbrella documents is
.cellml

Some older software uses the file extension .xml. Software
vendors have also used the non-standard extension .cml. In
contexts where the MIME type is available, or where the type
has already been determined as CellML, implementations SHOULD
allow files to be opened regardless of the extension.
Implementations transferring models to an environment that uses
file extensions SHOULD use the .cellml extension.

Macintosh File Type Code(s): "TEXT"

Person & email address to contact for further information:
See the Author's Address section of this document.

Intended usage: COMMON

Author/Change controller: The CellML Umbrella 1.0 specification
was authored by Andrew Miller.

The CellML Umbrella 1.0 specification itself will not change.
However, the umbrella specification defines the process for new
specific formats to be registered. The Bioengineering
Institute at The University of Auckland, with input from the
CellML Community via the cellml-discussion&cellml.org mailing
list, has control over the CellML Umbrella Format Registry.

