(registered 2021-11-09, last updated 2021-11-09)

MIME media type name: application

MIME subtype name: dash-patch+xml

Required parameters: None

Optional parameters: None

Encoding considerations: 8bit

   This media type always uses UTF-8.

Security considerations: MPD patches are based on the Patch Operations
   Framework defined in RFC 5261 and thus inherit the security
   considerations of that framework.

   In addition, the MPD patch is a patch to Media Presentation
   Description document and contains references to other resources. 
   It is coded in XML, and there are risks that deliberately 
   malformed XML can cause security issues. In addition, an MPD can 
   be authored that causes receiving clients to access other 
   resources; if widely distributed, this can be used to cause a 
   denial-of-service attack.

   The MPD patch format does not incorporate any active or executable 
   content. However, other forms of material from outside sources can 
   be referenced by an MPD, and this material can contain active or
   executable content. Such material is expected to be identified by 
   its own MIME type, and the security considerations of that format 
   should be taken into account.

   If operating in an insecure environment and required by the
   content/service provider, elements and attributes of MPD may be
   encrypted to protect their confidentiality by using the syntax and
   processing rules specified in the W3C Recommendation “XML 
   Encryption Syntax and Processing”.

   If operating in an insecure environment and required by the
   content/service provider, the digital signing and verification
   procedures specified in the W3C Recommendation “XML Signature 
   Syntax and Processing” may be used to protect data origin 
   authenticity and integrity of the MPD.

   The MPD Patch schema allow the inclusion elements and attributes 
   from other namespaces. Additionally, a patch could be used to 
   introduce material in other namespaces into the MPD itself. Such 
   material, if processed as part of the patch or MPD, raises 
   additional security considerations.

Interoperability considerations: The specification defines a
   platform-independent expression of a presentation, and it is 
   intended that wide interoperability can be achieved.

Published specification: ISO/IEC 23009-1, Information technology —
   Dynamic adaptive streaming over HTTP (DASH) — Part 1: Media
   presentation description and segment formats

Applications which use this media type: Various

Additional information:

   File extension(s): mpp

Intended usage: common

Other information/general comment: None

Author/Change controller: ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29 (MPEG)