MIME media type name:
application

MIME subtype name:
emma+xml

Required parameters:
None.

Optional parameters:
charset
This parameter has identical semantics to the charset parameter of the application/xml media type as specified in [RFC3023] or its successor.

Encoding considerations:
By virtue of EMMA content being XML, it has the same considerations when sent as "application/emma+xml"as does XML. See RFC 3023 (or its successor), section 3.2.

Security considerations:
Several features of EMMA require dereferencing arbitrary URIs. Implementers are advised to heed the security issues of [RFC3986] section 7.

In addition, because of the extensibility features for EMMA, it is possible that "application/emma+xml" will describe content that has security implications beyond those described here. However, if the processor follows only the normative semantics of this specification, this content will be ignored. Only in the case where the processor recognizes and processes the additional content, or where further processing of that content is dispatched to other processors, would security issues potentially arise. And in that case, they would fall outside the domain of this registration document.

Interoperability considerations:
This specification describes processing semantics that dictate the required behavior for dealing with, among other things, unrecognized elements.

Because EMMA is extensible, conformant "application/emma+xml" processors MAY expect that content received is well-formed XML, but processors SHOULD NOT assume that the content is valid EMMA or expect to recognize all of the elements and attributes in the document.

Published specification:
This media type registration is extracted from Appendix B of the "EMMA: Extensible MultiModal Annotation markup language" specification.

Additional information:
Magic number(s):
There is no single initial octet sequence that is always present in EMMA documents.

File extension(s):
EMMA documents are most often identified with the extensions ".emma".

Macintosh File Type Code(s):
TEXT

Person & email address to contact for further information:
Kazuyuki Ashimura, <ashimura&w3.org>.

Intended usage:
COMMON

Author/Change controller:
The EMMA specification is a work product of the World Wide Web Consortium's Multimodal Interaction Working Group. The W3C has change control over these specifications.