(registered 2013-10-30, last updated 2013-10-30)

MIME media type name : Application

MIME subtype name : emotionml+xml

Required parameters : None

Optional parameters :

charset

This parameter has identical semantics to the charset parameter of the
application/xml media type as specified in [RFC 3023] or its
successor.

Encoding considerations :

By virtue of EmotionML content being XML, it has the same
considerations when sent as "application/emotionml+xml" as does
XML. See RFC 3023 (or its successor), section 3.2.

Security considerations :

EmotionML elements may include arbitrary URIs. Therefore the
security issues of [RFC 3986], section 7, should be considered.

In addition, because of the extensibility features for EmotionML, it
is possible that "application/emotionml+xml" will describe content
that has security implications beyond those described here. However,
if the processor follows only the normative semantics of this
specification, this content will be ignored. Only in the case where
the processor recognizes and processes the additional content, or
where further processing of that content is dispatched to other
processors, would security issues potentially arise. And in that
case, they would fall outside the domain of this registration
document.

Interoperability considerations :

This specification describes processing semantics that dictate the
required behavior for dealing with, among other things, unrecognized
elements.

Because EmotionML is extensible, conformant
"application/emotionml+xml" processors MAY expect that content
received is well-formed XML, but processors SHOULD NOT assume that
the content is valid EmotionML or expect to recognize all of the
elements and attributes in the document.

Published specification :

This media type registration is extracted from Appendix B of the
"Emotion Markup Language (EmotionML) 1.0" specification.

http://www.w3.org/TR/emotionml/

Applications which use this media :

XML is device-, platform-, and vendor-neutral and is supported by a
wide range of Web user agents, as well as XML authoring tools.

Additional information :

1. Magic number(s) : Not Applicable
2. File extension(s) : .emotionml
3. Macintosh file type code : TEXT
4. Object Identifiers: none

Person to contact for further information :

1. Name : Kazuyuki Ashimura
2. Email : ashimura&w3.org

Intended usage : Common

Restrictions on usage : None

Author/Change controller :

The EmotionML specification is a work product of the World Wide Web
Consortium's Multimodal Interaction Working Group.