MIME Media Type:  application/fastsoap
(last updated October 2005)

The IESG has approved a request to register the "application/fastsoap" MIME
media type in the standards tree. This media type is a product of the
International Organization for Standardization (ISO).

The IESG contact persons are Ted Hardie and Scott Hollenbeck.

MIME media type name:
application

MIME subtype name:
fastsoap

Required parameters:
None.

Optional parameters:
"action": This parameter shall be used to identify the intent of the ASN.1
SOAP message as specified for the "action" parameter of the W3C SOAP 1.2
"application/soap+xml" MIME media type (see W3C SOAP 1.2 Part 2, Appendix
A). The value of the "action" parameter shall be an absolute URI-reference
as specified in IETF RFC 2396. No restriction shall be placed on the
specificity of the URI or that it is resolvable.


Encoding considerations:
This media type is used to identify content that is a value of the ASN.1
Envelope type specified in the ASN1SOAP module of ITU-T Rec. X.892 | ISO/IEC
24824-2, encoded using Basic Aligned Packed Encoding Rule specified in ITU-T
Rec. X.691 | ISO/IEC 8825-2.

Use of this MIME media type will require additional specification if used on
transports that do not provide 8-bit binary transparency. (For the purposes
of Fast Web Services, ITU-T Rec. X.892 | ISO/IEC 24824-2, this media type is
always used with the Basic Aligned Packed Encoding Rule and with HTTP as the
transport mechanism, and no further specification is needed.)

Security considerations:
Because ASN.1 SOAP messages can carry application-defined data whose
semantics is independent from that of any MIME wrapper (or context within
which
the MIME wrapper is used), one should not expect to be able to understand
the
semantics of the ASN.1 SOAP message based on the semantics of the MIME
wrapper
alone. Therefore, whenever using the "application/fastsoap" media type, it
is
strongly recommended that the security implications of the context within
which
the ASN.1 SOAP message is used is fully understood. The security
implications
are likely to involve the specific ASN.1 SOAP binding to an underlying
protocol
as well as the application-defined semantics of the data carried in the
ASN.1
SOAP message.

Interoperability considerations:
There are no known interoperability issues.

Published specification:
ITU-T Rec. X.892 | ISO/IEC 24824-2

Applications which use this media type:
No known applications that use this media type.

Additional information:
File extension(s):
ASN.1 SOAP messages are not required or expected to be stored as files.

Person & email address to contact for further information:
ITU-T ASN.1 Rapporteur (contact via tsb&itu.int)
ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6 ASN.1 Rapporteur (contact via secretariat&jtc1sc06.org)

Intended usage:
COMMON

Author/Change controller:
Joint ITU-T | ISO/IEC balloting procedures in accordance with ITU-T Rec.
A.23 Collaboration with the International Organization for Standardization
(ISO)
and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on information
technology, Annex A and ISO/IEC JTC1 Directives, Annex K.

(file created 31 October 2005)  
