(registered 2018-03-06, last updated 2018-03-06)

Name: Grahame Grieve
Email: fhir-director&hl7.org

Media type name: application
Media subtype name: fhir+json

Required parameters: (none)

Optional parameters:
charset - has the same meaning as for text/xml (see RFC 7303 section 3), If present, this must have the value "UTF-8". 

Encoding considerations: 8bit (since only UTF-8 is allowed)


Security considerations:
The content that may be carried in the FHIR media type includes Protected Health Information, information that identifies individuals (including genetic sequences), executable code, XHTML and billing and claiming information. Exchanging this kind of information carries many kinds of security risks to the systems that handle, store and administer the media. Further details are available at http://hl7.org/fhir/security.html.
As an JSON based type, this media type inherits the security considerations of JSON - See RFC 8259, Section 12.

Interoperability considerations:
FHIR is an interoperability format defined for use across the healthcare system. However the healthcare system itself has wide variations in information and business processes across jurisdiction, domain, institution type, and clinical context. For this reason, it should never be assumed that 2 applications that implement FHIR in a conformant fashion will interoperate with each other. FHIR includes an extensive meta-language for dealing with this variability, and the applicable conformance statements or implementation guides should be consulted (see http://hl7.org/fhir/profiling.html).

Published specification:
http://hl7.org/fhir

Applications which use this media:
Many 100s of applications across healthcare, including EHRs, patient registries, Clinical research applications, Terminology servers

Fragment identifier considerations:
Fragment identifier rules for JSON apply

Restrictions on usage:
n/a

Additional information:

1. Deprecated alias names for this type: n/a
2. Magic number(s): n/a
3. File extension(s): n/a
4. Macintosh file type code: n/a
5. Object Identifiers: n/a

General Comments:


Person to contact for further information:

1. Name: Grahame Grieve
2. Email: fhir-director&hl7.org

Intended usage: Common
Used for exchange of data in healthcare related applications

Author/Change controller: HL7 (http://www.hl7.org)