(file created 2013-01-03; last updated 2013-01-03)

Type name:
application

Subtype name:
font-woff

Required parameters:
None.

Optional parameters:
None.

Encoding considerations:
binary.

Security considerations:
Fonts are interpreted data structures that represent
collections of glyph outlines, metrics and layout
information for various languages and writing systems.
Currently, there are many standardized font data tables
that allow an unspecified number of entries, and where
existing, predefined data fields allow storage of binary
data with variable length. There is a significant risk
that the flexibility of font data structures may be
exploited to hide malicious binary content disguised as
a font data component.

WOFF is based on the table-based SFNT (scalable font)
format which is highly extensible and offers an
opportunity to introduce additional data structures when
needed. However, this same extensibility may present
specific security concerns – the flexibility and ease of
defining new data structures makes it easy for any
arbitrary data to be added and hidden inside a font
file.

WOFF fonts may contain 'hints' for the alignment of
graphical elements of the glyphs with the target display
pixel grid, and depending on the font technology
utilized in the creation of a font these hints may
represent active code interpreted and executed by the
font rasterizer. Even though they operate within the
confines of the glyph outline conversion system and have
no access outside the font rendering machinery, hint
instructions can be, however, quite complex, and a
maliciously designed complex font could cause undue
resource consumption (e.g. memory or CPU cycles) on a
machine interpreting it. Indeed, fonts are sufficiently
complex that most if not all interpreters cannot be
completely protected from malicious fonts without undue
performance penalties.

Widespread use of fonts as necessary component of visual
content presentation warrants that a careful attention
should be given to security considerations whenever a
font is either embedded into an electronic document or
transmitted alongside media content as a linked
resource.

WOFF uses gzip compression. The WOFF header contains the
uncompressed length of each compressed table.
Applications may therefore constrain the size of memory
buffer allocated for decompression and may stop writing
if a maliciously crafted WOFF file in fact contains more
data than is indicated.

WOFF does not provide privacy protections internally; if
needed, these should be provided externally.

WOFF has a private data block facility, which may
contain arbitrary binary data. WOFF does not provide a
means to access this, or to execute any code contained
therein. WOFF requires that the content of this block
not affect font rendering in any way.

Interoperability considerations:

Published specification:
This media type registration is extracted from the
WOFF specification at W3C.
http://www.w3.org/TR/WOFF

Applications that use this media type:
WOFF is used by Web browsers, often in conjunction with
HTML and CSS.

Additional information:

Magic number(s):
The signature field in the WOFF header MUST
contain the "magic number" 0x774F4646

File extension(s):
woff

Macintosh file type code(s):
(no code specified)

Macintosh Universal Type Identifier code:
org.w3c.woff

Fragment Identifiers
none.

Person & email address to contact for further information:
Chris Lilley (www-font&w3.org).

Intended usage:
COMMON

Restrictions on usage:
None

Author:
The WOFF specification is a work product of the World
Wide Web Consortium's WebFonts Working Group.

Change controller:
The W3C has change control over this specification.