(registered 2018-08-10, last updated 2018-08-10)

Name: Scott Simmons

Email: ssimmons&opengeospatial.org

Media type name: application

Media subtype name: geopackage+sqlite3

Required parameters: none

Optional parameters:
   version: If provided, this parameter indicates the GeoPackage 
   version used in the GeoPackage. Only the major and the first minor
   version number are provided, e.g., 1.2. The major and minor 
   version number values are unsigned integers without leading zeros.
   Profiles are not applicable.

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations: The OGC GeoPackage (GPKG) is a generic SQL 
   schema for exchanging geographic information in a SQLite database,
   but application designers must not assume that it provides any 
   protection against security threats. SQLite is a single user 
   database that does not include security protections. SQLite 
   databases can be used to store blobs containing data to be handled
   by other applications or libraries; any security considerations of
   the content of those blob objects must also be taken into account.

   GeoPackage can contain embedded images such as image/jpeg and 
   image/png objects, thus GeoPackage inherits the security 
   considerations of these object types.

   See the application/vnd.sqlite3 media type for additional security
   considerations.

Interoperability considerations: To date, all versions of GeoPackage 
   are designed to be backward and forward compatible. While it is 
   technically possible to produce compliant GeoPackages that are 
   incompatible, these involve the use of non-standardized extensions 
   that were rarely if ever implemented by software available at the 
   time.

Published specification:
   [OGC 12-128r14] Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC): OGC GeoPackage 
   Encoding Standard version 1.2, 2017-08-25.
   https://portal.opengeospatial.org/files/12-128r14

Applications which use this media: GPKG is a generic device-, 
   platform-, and vendor-neutral SQLite schema and is supported by a 
   range of applications creating, providing access to, and 
   processing geographic information. GPKG is in use internationally 
   with dozens of deployed applications able to create and ingest 
   GPKG payloads, including all of the major Geographic Information 
   System (GIS) vendors, many database providers, earth browser 
   applications, and so forth.

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Provisional registration? (standards tree only): N/A

Additional information:

   1. Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A
   2. Magic number(s): 47 50 4B 47 (version 1.2 or higher) at offset 
      68
   3. File extension(s): .gpkg
   4. Macintosh file type code: N/A
   5. Object Identifiers: N/A

General Comments:

Person to contact for further information:

   1. Name: Scott Simmons
   2. Email: ssimmons&opengeospatial.org

Intended usage: Common

   OGC GeoPackage Encoding Standard defines GeoPackages for exchange 
   and GeoPackage SQLite Extensions for direct use of vector 
   geospatial features and / or tile matrix sets of earth images and 
   raster maps at various scales. Direct use means the ability to 
   access and update data in a "native" storage format without 
   intermediate format translations in an environment (e.g. through 
   an API) that guarantees data model and data set integrity and 
   identical access and update results in response to identical 
   requests from different client applications. GeoPackages are 
   interoperable across all enterprise and personal computing 
   environments, and are particularly useful on mobile devices like 
   cell phones and tablets in communications environments with 
   limited connectivity and bandwidth.

Author/Change controller: Open Geospatial Consortium