(registered 2021-12-15, last updated 2022-04-13)

Media type name: application

Media subtype name: hl7v2+xml

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters:

   charset - has the same meaning as for text/xml (see RFC 7303 
   section 3), If present, this must have the value "UTF-8".

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations: The content that may be carried in the Hl7V2 
   media type includes Protected Health Information, information that 
   identifies individuals (including genetic sequences), executable 
   code, XHTML and billing and claiming information. Exchanging this 
   kind of information carries many kinds of security risks to the 
   systems that handle, store and administer the media. HL7 provides 
   a standardized way of exchanging requirements for restrictions as 
   well as identifying the data affected by privacy law and 
   confidentiality rules. HL7 has developed the HL7 Healthcare 
   Privacy and Security Classification System (HCS), Release 1
   (see: http://www.hl7.org/implement/standards/product_brief.cfm?product_id=345) 
   which can be used in several v2 segments. This format does not 
   currently support an option to embed digital signatures to provide 
   non-repudiation and origin authentication. However, HL7 messages 
   in this format can be digitally signed using externalized 
   mechanisms that don't need to be embedded within the artifact.

   As an XML-based type, this media type inherits the security 
   considerations of XML -- see RFC 7303 section 10.

Interoperability considerations: Health Level 7’s Version 2.x (HL7 
   V2) is designed to enable clinical messaging that provides data 
   about events that occur inside an organization to share event 
   notifications within the healthcare domain. The HL7 V2 messaging 
   standard is the workhorse of electronic data exchange in the 
   clinical domain and arguably the most widely implemented standard 
   for healthcare in the world. This messaging standard allows the 
   exchange of clinical data between systems. It is designed to 
   support a central patient care system as well as a more 
   distributed environment where data resides in departmental 
   systems. However the healthcare system itself has wide variations 
   in information and business processes across jurisdiction, domain, 
   institution type, and clinical context.

Published specification:

   http://www.hl7.org/implement/standards/product_brief.cfm?product_id=185

Applications which use this media: Many 100s of applications across 
   healthcare, including EHRs, laboratory information systems and 
   diagnostic testing systems, patient scheduling systems, and all 
   types of systems that need to monitor patient admission, 
   discharge, and transfer information.

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Additional information:

   1. Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A
   2. Magic number(s): N/A
   3. File extension(s): N/A
   4. Macintosh file type code: N/A
   5. Object Identifiers: N/A

General Comments:


Person to contact for further information:

   1. Name: Marc Duteau
   2. Email: marc&hl7.org

Intended usage: Common

   Used for exchange of data in healthcare-related applications

Author/Change controller: Health Level Seven International (HL7) 
   (http://hl7.org)