(last updated 2011-08-15)

MIME media type name:
application

MIME subtype name:
inkml+xml

Required parameters:

None.
Optional parameters:

charset

This parameter has identical semantics to the charset parameter of
the application/xml media type as specified in [RFC3023] or its successor.
Encoding considerations:

By virtue of InkML content being XML, it has the same considerations
when sent as "application/inkml+xml" as does XML. See RFC 3023 (or its
successor), section 3.2.

Security considerations:

InkML elements may include arbitrary URIs. Therefore the
security issues of [RFC3986], section 7, should be considered.

In addition, because of the extensibility features for InkML, it is
possible that "application/inkml+xml" may describe content that has
security implications beyond those described here. However, if the
processor follows only the normative semantics of this specification,
this content will be ignored. Only in the case where the processor
recognizes and processes the additional content, or where further
processing of that content is dispatched to other processors, would
security issues potentially arise. And in that case, they would fall
outside the domain of this registration document.

Interoperability considerations:

This specification describes processing semantics that dictate
behavior that must be followed when dealing with, among other things,
unrecognized elements.

Because InkML is extensible, conformant "application/inkml+xml"
processors MAY expect that content received is well-formed XML, but
processors SHOULD NOT assume that the content is valid InkML or expect
to recognize all of the elements and attributes in the document.
Published specification:

This media type registration is extracted from Appendix D of the Ink
Markup Language (InkML) specification.

Additional information:

Magic number(s):

There is no single initial octet sequence that is always present
in InkML documents.

File extension(s):

InkML documents are most often identified with the extensions
".ink" or ".inkml".

Macintosh File Type Code(s):

TEXT

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Kazuyuki Ashimura, <ashimura&w3.org>.

Intended usage:

COMMON
Author/Change controller:

The InkML specification is a work product of the World Wide Web
Consortium's Multimodal Interaction Working Group. The W3C has change
control over these specifications.

(file created 2011-08-15)