(registered 2013-09-06, last updated 2013-10-01)

Type name: application

Subtype name: jrd+json

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters: N/A

 In particular, because RFC 4627 already defines the character
 encoding for JSON, no "charset" parameter is used.

Encoding considerations: See RFC 6839, Section 3.1.

Security considerations:

 The JSON Resource Descriptor (JRD) is a JavaScript Object Notation
 (JSON) object.  It is a text format that must be parsed by entities
 that wish to utilize the format.  Depending on the language and
 mechanism used to parse a JSON object, it is possible for an
 attacker to inject behavior into a running program.  Therefore,
 care must be taken to properly parse a received JRD to ensure that
 only a valid JSON object is present and that no JavaScript or other
 code is injected or executed unexpectedly.

Interoperability considerations:

 This media type is a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) object and
 can be consumed by any software application that can consume JSON
 objects.

Published specification: RFC7033

Applications that use this media type:

 The JSON Resource Descriptor (JRD) is used by the WebFinger
 protocol (RFC7033) to enable the exchange of information 
 between a client and a WebFinger resource over HTTPS.

Fragment identifier considerations:

 The syntax and semantics of fragment identifiers SHOULD be as
 specified for "application/json".  (At publication of this
 document, there is no fragment identification syntax defined for
 "application/json".)

Additional information:

 Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A

 Magic number(s): N/A

 File extension(s): jrd

 Macintosh file type code(s): N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

 Paul E. Jones <paulej&packetizer.com>

Intended usage: COMMON

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Author: Paul E. Jones <paulej&packetizer.com>

Change controller:

 IESG has change control over this registration.

Provisional registration? (standards tree only): N/A
