Type name:  application

Subtype name:  jscalendar+json

Required parameters:  type

  The "type" parameter conveys the type of the JSCalendar data in
  the body part.  The allowed parameter values correspond to the
  "@type" property of the JSON-formatted JSCalendar object in the
  body:

  "event":  The "@type" property value MUST be "Event".

  "task":  The "@type" property value MUST be "Task".

  "group":  The "@type" property value MUST be "Group".

  No other parameter values are allowed.  The parameter MUST NOT
  occur more than once.

Optional parameters:  none

Encoding considerations:  This is the same as the encoding
  considerations of application/json, as specified in Section 11 of
  RFC 8259.

Security considerations:  See Section 7 of RFC 8984.

Interoperability considerations:  While JSCalendar is designed to
  avoid ambiguities as much as possible, when converting objects
  from other calendar formats to/from JSCalendar, it is possible
  that differing representations for the same logical data or
  ambiguities in interpretation might arise.  The semantic
  equivalence of two JSCalendar objects may be determined
  differently by different applications, for example, where URL
  values differ in case between the two objects.

Published specification:  RFC 8984

Applications that use this media type:  Applications that currently
  make use of the text/calendar and application/calendar+json media
  types can use this as an alternative.  Similarly, applications
  that use the application/json media type to transfer calendaring
  data can use this to further specify the content.

Fragment identifier considerations:  A JSON Pointer fragment
  identifier may be used, as defined in RFC 6901, Section 6.

Additional information:  

  Magic number(s):  N/A

  File extensions(s):  N/A

  Macintosh file type code(s):  N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information: 
  calsify&ietf.org

Intended usage:  COMMON

Restrictions on usage:  N/A

Author:  See the "Author's Address" section of RFC 8984.

Change controller:  IETF
