(Registered 2013-08-16, last updated 2013-08-16)

Type name:
application

Subtype name:
ld+json

Required parameters:
None

Optional parameters:
profile

A a non-empty list of space-separated URIs identifying
specific constraints or conventions that apply to a JSON-LD
document according [RFC6906]. A profile does not change the
semantics of the resource representation when processed
without profile knowledge, so that clients both with and
without knowledge of a profiled resource can safely use the
same representation. The profile parameter MAY be used by
clients to express their preferences in the content
negotiation process. If the profile parameter is given, a
server SHOULD return a document that honors the profiles in
the list which are recognized by the server. It is RECOMMENDED
that profile URIs are dereferenceable and provide useful
documentation at that URI. For more information and background
please refer to [RFC6906].

This specification defines three values for the profile
parameter. To request or specify expanded JSON-LD document
form, the URI http://www.w3.org/ns/json-ld#expanded SHOULD be
used. To request or specify compacted JSON-LD document form,
the URI http://www.w3.org/ns/json-ld#compacted SHOULD be used.
To request or specify flattened JSON-LD document form, the URI
http://www.w3.org/ns/json-ld#flattened SHOULD be used. Please
note that, according [HTTP11], the value of the profile
parameter has to be enclosed in quotes (") because it contains
special characters and, if multiple profiles are combined,
whitespace.

When processing the "profile" media type parameter, it is
important to note that its value contains one or more URIs and
not IRIs. In some cases it might therefore be necessary to
convert between IRIs and URIs as specified in section 3
Relationship between IRIs and URIs of [RFC3987].

Encoding considerations:
See RFC 6839, section 3.1.

Security considerations:
See [RFC4627]

Since JSON-LD is intended to be a pure data exchange format for
directed graphs, the serialization SHOULD NOT be passed through a
code execution mechanism such as JavaScript's eval() function to
be parsed. An (invalid) document may contain code that, when
executed, could lead to unexpected side effects compromising the
security of a system.

When processing JSON-LD documents, links to remote contexts are
typically followed automatically, resulting in the transfer of
files without the explicit request of the user for each one. If
remote contexts are served by third parties, it may allow them to
gather usage patterns or similar information leading to privacy
concerns. Specific implementations, such as the API defined in the
JSON-LD Processing Algorithms and API specification [JSON-LD-API],
may provide fine-grained mechanisms to control this behavior.

JSON-LD contexts that are loaded from the Web over non-secure
connections, such as HTTP, run the risk of modifying the JSON-LD
active context in a way that could compromise security. It is
advised that any application that depends on a remote context for
mission critical purposes vet and cache the remote context before
allowing the system to use it.

Given that JSON-LD allows the substitution of long IRIs with short
terms, JSON-LD documents may expand considerably when processed
and, in the worst case, the resulting data might consume all of
the recipient's resources. Applications should treat any data with
due skepticism.

Interoperability considerations:
Not Applicable

Published specification:
http://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld

Applications that use this media type:
Any programming environment that requires the exchange of directed
graphs. Implementations of JSON-LD have been created for
JavaScript, Python, Ruby, PHP, and C++.

Additional information:

Magic number(s):
Not Applicable
File extension(s):
.jsonld
Macintosh file type code(s):
TEXT

Person & email address to contact for further information:
Ivan Herman <ivan&w3.org>

Intended usage:
Common

Restrictions on usage:
None

Author(s):
Manu Sporny, Gregg Kellogg, Markus Lanthaler

Change controller:
W3C