(registered 2020-03-18, last updated 2020-03-18)

MIME media type name: application

MIME subtype name: lpf+zip

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters: N/A

Encoding considerations:
LPF files are binary files in ZIP format.

Security considerations that apply to application/zip 
   (https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/application/zip) 
   also apply to LPF files. For instance, an archive could contain 
   compressed files that expand to fill all available disk space on a
   hard drive. In consequence, user agents that read LPF files should
   rigorously check the size and validity of data retrieved.

   In addition, because of the various content types that can be 
   embedded in LPF files, application/lpf+zip may describe content 
   that poses security issues, e.g. malicious executable content 
   deliberately included in the package. However, only in cases where
   the user agent recognizes and processes the additional content, or
   where further processing of that content is dispatched to other 
   user agents, would security issues potentially arise. In such 
   cases, matters of security would fall outside the domain of this 
   registration document.

Interoperability considerations: Any format based on LPF, if using 
   content encryption, MUST choose a different MIME media type and 
   file extension than those defined in this specification.

Published specification: This media type registration is for the 
   Lightweight Packaging Format (LPF), as described by the 
   Lightweight Packaging Format (LPF) specification located at 
   https://www.w3.org/TR/lpf.

Applications that use this media type: This media type is intended to
   be used by multiple interoperable applications for the 
   distribution and consumption of ebooks, audiobooks, digital visual
   narratives and other types of digital publications.

Additional information:

Magic number(s): 0: PK 0x03 0x04
File extension(s): LPF files are most often identified with the 
   extension .lpf.
Macintosh file type code(s): ZIP

Fragment identifiers: None

Person & email address to contact for further information:
   Ivan Herman (ivan&w3.org)

Intended usage: COMMON

Author/change controller: The published specification is a work 
   product of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)’s Publishing 
   Working Group. The W3C has change control over this specification.