(last updated 2007-08-17)

Date: Tue, 26 Jan 1999 16:45:45 -0800 (PST)
From: "Kenneth R. Brownfield" <kenb&wolfram.com>
To: iana&iana.org, kenb&wolfram.com
Subject: Request for MIME media type Application/IETF Tree -mathematica

Name : Kenneth R. Brownfield

E-mail : kenb&wolfram.com

MIME media type name : Application

MIME subtype name : IETF Tree -mathematica

Required parameters : A required version parameter must be specified.
The value of the version parameter should be in one of the following
forms:

<major release number>.<minor release number>
<major release number>

<major release number> and <minor release number> are digits.  Examples
of valid values for the version parameter include:

2
2.2
3
4


Optional parameters : 
An optional filename parameter may be specified.


Encoding considerations : 
All the necessary information in Mathematica notebooks is represented
in text format, usually ASCII.  Whenever possible, Mathematica
notebooks should be transmitted with the 7-bit encoding mechanism.

Notebooks created with version 2.x of Mathematica may contain 8-bit
characters, which should be transmitted using the quoted-printable
mechanism.  Version 2.x notebooks may also have a binary portion (see
COMMENTS section), which should be transmitted with base64 or another
suitable encoding scheme.


Security considerations : 
Mathematica notebooks can contain "initialization cells", which are
intended by the notebook's author to be evaluated by a Mathematica
kernel when the notebook is opened.  The Mathematica front end, the
primary viewer of Mathematica notebooks, provides an option to have a
notebook's initialization cells automatically evaluated without
prompting the user.  This option is OFF by default.  Since Mathematica
can run external programs on some computers, and can effect the
filesystems on all computers, users of the Mathematica front end are
strongly encouraged to disable the option to automatically evaluate
initialization cells when receiving potentially unsafe Mathematica
notebooks.  Whenever possible, MathReader, a read-only notebook viewer,
should be used to view notebooks that are potentially unsafe.  No
security risks are present when MathReader is used to view notebooks.


Interoperability considerations : 


Published specification : 
The published file format specification is available in "The
Mathematica Book", an extensive guide to Mathematica written by Stephen
Wolfram.


Applications which use this media : 
Two known applications that are aware of this media type are
"Mathematica", and the read-only "MathReader" notebook viewer, both
made by Wolfram Research, Inc..


Additional information :

1. Magic number(s) : 
2. File extension(s) : .nb,.ma,.mb
3. Macintosh file type code : Creator: OMEG  Type: ttxt
Valid Mathematica version 3 and 4 notebooks only contain 7-bit ASCII
characters.  All 8-bit content is encoded to and decoded from a 7-bit
format.

Mathematica version 2 notebooks are created in two "portions":  the
text portion which contains all of the notebook's necessary
information, and the binary portion which facilitates fast loading of
the notebook.  On non-Macintosh computers, the text portion of a
notebook is stored in a file with a ".mb" extension.  On Macintosh
computers, the text portion is stored in the file's data fork and the
binary portion is stored in the file's resource fork.


Person to contact for further information :

1. Name : Wolfram Research, Inc.
2. E-mail : info&wolfram.com

Intended usage : Common 


Author/Change controller : 
Wolfram Research, Inc.
100 Trade Center Drive
Champaign, IL  61820-7237
 






