Type name
application

Subtype name
mathml-presentation+xml

Required parameters
None

Optional parameters
Same as charset parameter of application/xml as specified in [RFC3023]

Encoding considerations
The considerations of application/xml as specified in [RFC3023] apply.

Security considerations
As with other XML types and as noted in [RFC3023] section 10, repeated expansion of maliciously constructed XML entities can be used to consume large amounts of memory, which may cause XML processors in constrained environments to fail.

Several MathML elements may cause arbitrary URIs to be referenced. In this case, the security issues of [RFC3986], section 7, should be considered.

In common with HTML, MathML documents may reference external media such as images, style sheets, and scripting languages. Scripting languages are executable content. In this case, the security considerations in the Media Type registrations for those formats shall apply. Similarly, MathML annotation elements may contain content intended for execution or processing. In the case where the processor recognizes and processes the additional content, or where further processing of that content is dispatched to other processors, additional security issues potentially arise. Since the normative semantics of this specification do not require processing of annotation elements, such issues fall outside the domain of this registration document.

MathML may be used to describe mathematical expressions intended for evaluation in computing systems. Because of the nature of mathematics, a seemingly innocuous expression may lead to a computation which does not terminate or is impractically large. This introduces the risk that computational processors in constrained environments may fail.

In addition, because of the extensibility features for MathML and of XML in general, it is possible that "application/mathml-presentation+xml" may describe content that has security implications beyond those described here. However, if the processor follows only the normative semantics of this specification, this content will be outside the MathML namespace and shall be ignored.

Interoperability considerations
This specification describes processing semantics that dictate behavior that must be followed when dealing with, among other things, unrecognized elements and attributes, both in the MathML namespace and in other namespaces.

Because MathML is extensible, conformant "application/mathml-presentation+xml" processors must expect that content received is well-formed XML, but it cannot be guaranteed that the content is valid to a particular DTD or Schema or that the processor will recognize all of the elements and attributes in the document.

MathML instances do not contain version numbers, so processors and producers must follow the normative backward compatibility behavior described in this specification.

In computational contexts, the result of evaluating a MathML expression is system-specific, and is not guaranteed to be interoperable between systems.

This specification does not record a file extension for the media type "application/mathml-presentation+xml" because we expect tools processing files with MathML inside to have sufficient information with the generic media-type (application/mathml+xml) while other content negotiation forms will take advantage of specific media-types.

Published specification
This media type registration is extracted from Appendix B of the Mathematical Markup Language (MathML) Version 3. specification.

Applications that use this media type
Web browsers, rendering engines, formula editors, typesetting software, search robots, computing systems.

Additional information

Magic number(s): see [RFC3023]

File extension(s):
None

Windows Clipboard Name:
MathML Presentation

Macintosh file type code(s)
MMLp
Macintosh Universal Type Identifier code
public.mathml.presentation conforming to public.mathml (described above) conforming to public.xml

Person & email address to contact for further information
Paul Libbrecht (member-math&w3.org). See the W3C Math Working Group home page for more information.

Intended usage
COMMON

Restrictions on usage
None

Author and Change controller
The MathML specification is the product of the World Wide Web Consortium's Math Working Group. The W3C has change control over this specification.