(RFC 4155 published September 2005, subtype last updated September 2005)

MIME media type name: application

MIME subtype name: mbox

Required parameters: none

Optional parameters: The "format" parameter identifies the format of
the mbox database and the messages contained therein. The default
value for the "format" parameter is "default", and refers to the
formatting rules defined in Appendix A of this memo. mbox databases
that do not have a "format" parameter SHOULD be interpreted as having
the implicit "format" value of "default". mbox databases that have
an unknown value for the "format" parameter SHOULD be treated as
opaque data objects, as if the media type had been specified as
application/octet-stream. Additional values for the format parameter
are to be defined in subsequent specifications, and registered with
IANA.

Encoding considerations: If an email client receives an mbox database
as a message attachment, and then stores that attachment within a
local mbox database, the contents of the two database files may
become irreversibly intermingled, such that both databases are
rendered unrecognizable. In order to avoid these collisions,
messaging systems that support this specification MUST encode an mbox
database (or at a minimum, the separator lines) with non-transparent
transfer encoding (such as BASE64 or Quoted-Printable) whenever an
application/mbox object is transferred via messaging protocols.
Other transfer services are generally encouraged to adopt similar
encoding strategies in order to allow for any subsequent
retransmission that might occur, but this is not a requirement.
Implementers should also be prepared to encode mbox data locally if
non-compliant data is received.

Security considerations: mbox data is passive, and does not generally
represent a unique or new security threat. However, there is risk in
sharing any kind of data, because unintentional information may be
exposed, and this risk certainly applies to mbox data as well.

Interoperability considerations: Due to the lack of a single
authoritative specification for mbox databases, there are a large
number of variations between database formats (refer to the
introduction text for common examples), and it is expected that non-
conformant data will be erroneously tagged or exchanged. Although
the "default" format specified in this memo does not allow for these
kinds of vagaries, prior negotiation or agreement between humans may
sometimes be needed.

Published specification: see Appendix A.

Applications that use this media type: hundreds of messaging products
make use of the mbox database format, in one form or another.

Magic number(s): mbox database files can be recognized by having a
leading character sequence of "From", followed by a single Space
character (0x20), followed by additional printable character data
(refer to the description in Appendix A for details). However,
implementers are cautioned that all such files will not be compliant
with all of the formatting rules, therefore implementers should treat
these files with an appropriate amount of circumspection.

File extension(s): mbox database files sometimes have an ".mbox"
extension, but this is not required nor expected. As with magic
numbers, implementers should avoid reflexive assumptions about the
contents of such files.

Macintosh File Type Code(s): None are known to be common.

Person & email address to contact for further information: Eric A.
Hall (ehall&ntrg.com)

Intended usage: COMMON