(RFC 5537 published November 2009, subtype last updated November 2009)

MIME type name:           application

MIME subtype name:        news-checkgroups

Required parameters:      none

Optional parameters:      charset, which MUST be a charset
                          registered for use with MIME text types.
                          It has the same syntax as the parameter
                          defined for text/plain [RFC2046].
                          Specifies the charset of the body part.
                          If not given, the charset defaults to
                          US-ASCII [ASCII].

Encoding considerations:  7bit or 8bit encoding MUST be used to
                          maintain compatibility.

Security considerations:  This media type provides only a means
                          for conveying a list of newsgroups and
                          does not provide any information
                          indicating whether the sender is
                          authorized to state which newsgroups
                          should exist within a hierarchy.  Such
                          authorization must be accomplished by
                          other means.

Interoperability considerations:
                          Disposition should by default be inline.

Applications that use this media type:
                          Control message issuers, relaying
                          agents, serving agents.

Published specification:  RFC 5537

Intended usage:           COMMON

Change controller:        IETF

The content of the application/news-checkgroups body part is defined
as:

   checkgroups-body    = *( valid-group CRLF )
   valid-group         = newsgroups-line ; see Section 4.2

The same restrictions on charset, <newsgroup-name>, and <newsgroup-
description> apply for this media type as for application/
news-groupinfo.

One application/news-checkgroups message may contain information for
one or more hierarchies and is considered complete for any hierarchy
for which it contains a <valid-group> unless accompanied by external
information limiting its scope (such as a <chkscope> parameter to a
checkgroups control message, as described in Section 5.2.3).  In
other words, an application/news-checkgroups body part consisting of

   example.moderated         A moderated newsgroup (Moderated)
   example.test              An unmoderated test group

is a statement that the example.* hierarchy contains two newsgroups,
example.moderated and example.test, and no others.  This media type
therefore MUST NOT be used for conveying partial information about a
hierarchy; if a group from a given hierarchy is present, all groups
that exist in that hierarchy MUST be listed unless its scope is
limited by external information, in which case all groups SHOULD be
listed.

Spaces are used in this example for formatting reasons.  In an actual
message, the newsgroup name and description MUST be separated by one
or more tabs (HTAB, ASCII %d09), not spaces.