(registered 2018-11-28, last updated 2018-11-28)

Media type name: application

Media subtype name: odm+xml

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters:

   granularity=( All | Metadata | AdminData | ReferenceData | 
   AllClinicalData | SingleSite | SingleSubject )

   Granularity is intended to provide a shorthand way to describe the 
   breadth of the information in the document, for certain common 
   types of documents. All means the entire study; Metadata means the 
   MetaDataVersion element; AdminData and ReferenceData mean the 
   corresponding elements; AllClinicalData, SingleSite, and 
   SingleSubject are successively more tightly focused subset of the 
   study's clinical data. Each of the granularities listed represents 
   a valid ODM document structure. If not present, no default 
   granularity value is implied.

   odmversion=x.y.z

   ODMVersion indicates the CDISC ODM standard version of the 
   document. For example, odmversion=(1.2.0 | 1.2.1 | 1.3.0 | 1.3.1 | 
   1.3.2 | 2.0.0) lists alternatives for currently supported versions 
   of ODM. As new versions of the standard are published by CDISC, 
   these versions will follow the specified versioning syntax (e.g. 
   2.0.1). Each ODM version has a corresponding specification and 
   schema. The numbering scheme indicates the major, minor, and patch 
   versions as shown in the x.y.z syntax. A major version indicates 
   significant changes that are not compatiable with the previous 
   version. A minor version adds functionality to the standard in a
   backwards-compatible manner. A patch version adds 
   backwards-compatible bug fixes. If not present, no default 
   odmversion value is implied.

Encoding considerations:  Same as application/xml - see section 9.1 
   of RFC 7303.

Security considerations: As an XML-based type, this media type 
   inherits the security considerations of XML- see RFC 7303 section 
   10. Xlink references in ODM documents may cause arbitrary URIs to 
   be dereferenced. In this case, the security issues of RFC 3986, 
   section 7, should be considered. ODM does not contain active or 
   executable content. ODM does not employ compression or employ a 
   container format, such as ZIP.

   The ODM standard does not provide privacy or integrity services, 
   however, ODM may be used for storing and transferring sensitive 
   information. When senstive data requires privacy or integrity 
   services, those must be provided externally, for example by 
   Transport Layer Security (TLS) or Secure Sockets Layer (SSL). For 
   regulated research, specific regulations or guidelines may exist 
   pertaining to data privacy and integrity. The government data 
   protection regulations for your region should be consulted (e.g. 
   Code of Federal Regulations Title 21 Part 11 Electronic Records; 
   Electronic Signatures for the US).

Interoperability considerations: See the ODM specification for 
   guidance on ODM interoperability   
   https://www.cdisc.org/standards/data-exchange/odm

Published specification:
   https://www.cdisc.org/standards/data-exchange/odm

Applications which use this media: The CDISC Operational Data Model 
   (ODM) is a vendor-neutral, platform-independent format for 
   exchanging and archiving clinical and translational research data, 
   along with their associated metadata, administrative data, 
   reference data, and audit information. ODM facilitates the 
   regulatory-compliant acquisition, archival and exchange of 
   metadata and data. It has become the language of choice for 
   representing case report form content in many electronic data 
   capture (EDC) tools. 

Fragment identifier considerations: None

Restrictions on usage: None

Additional information:

   1. Deprecated alias names for this type: None 
   2. Magic number(s): None 
   3. File extension(s): .xml 
   4. Macintosh file type code: None 
   5. Object Identifiers: None

General Comments:


Person to contact for further information:

   1. Name: Sam Hume
   2. Email: shume&cdisc.org

Intended usage: Common
   https://www.cdisc.org/standards/data-exchange/odm

Author/Change controller: CDISC (https://www.cdisc.org/)