(registered 2014-01-08, last updated 2014-01-08)

Name : Thomas Thomsen

Email : thomas.thomsen&asam.net

MIME media type name : Application

MIME subtype name : Standards Tree - ODX

Required parameters : N/A

Optional parameters :
N/A

Encoding considerations : 8bit


Security considerations :
ODX, as an XML format, inherits the security considerations for XML
described in RFC 3023.

The ODX modeled diagnostic data describe:

- Protocol specification for diagnostic communication of Engine
Control Units (ECUs),
- Communication parameters for different protocols and data link layers
and for ECU software,
- ECU programming data (Flash),
- Related vehicle interface description (connectors and pinout),
- Functional description of diagnostic capabilities of a network
of ECUs,
- ECU configuration data (Variant coding).

ODX contains no directly executable content but may be used to
generate code and configuration information for diagnostic systems.

The ODX XML format provides no privacy or integrity protection. If
such protection is needed it must be provided externally.

Interoperability considerations :


Published specification :
ASAM MCD-2 D (ODX)

Applications which use this media :
The ODX format is used in applications, which are involved in the creation, 
processing, storage and exchange of automotive diagnostic data. Such 
applications are:
- diagnostic editors
- authoring tools
- diagnostic run time systems (service testers, diagnostic scan tools)
- flash programming applications
The objective of ODX data files (ODX) is to ensure that diagnostic data from 
any vehicle manufacturer is independent of the testing hardware and protocol 
software supplied by any test equipment manufacturer. ODX files are used 
throughout the life-cycle of embedded software in engineering, manufacturing, 
maintenance and repair workshops.

Additional information :

1. Magic number(s) : N/A
2. File extension(s) : odx
3. Macintosh file type code : N/A
4. Object Identifiers: N/A

For more information on the standard ASAM MCD-2 D (ODX) and the ODX file 
format, please visit www.asam.net.

Person to contact for further information :

1. Name : Thomas Thomsen
2. Email : thomas.thomsen&asam.net

Intended usage : Common


Author/Change controller : ASAM (info&asam.net)