(last updated 2011-05-17)

Type name: application

Subtype name: oxps

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters: N/A

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations:
OpenXPS uses ZIP compression as specified in .ZIP File Format Specification
from PKWARE, Inc., version 6.2.0 (2004). ZIP compressed XML requires parsing
untrusted XML data and untrusted ZIP data. The consumer is responsible for
validating the .zip archive, the XML structure, and the resource content.
Per spec, there should be no active content provided as part of the OpenXPS
format. The consumer must ensure that no malicious active content is erroneously
provided in the OpenXPS document. Valid content is described in the EMCA-388
specification (http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-388.htm).
Especially take note of section E.3, which describes steps that can be
taken to validate the contents of the payload.


Interoperability considerations:
application/oxps documents are specified by the XML schemas standardized in ECMA-388.
Applications and drivers currently producing/consuming Microsoft XPS
content cannot directly produce/consume OpenXPS. Changes are required
to address differences in the two specifications, such as namespace,
print ticket usage, use of JPEG XR, etc.

To ensure interoperability, the clipboard format must be a complete OpenXPS file with .oxps extension.

Published specification:
The published standard ECMA-388 is available at:
http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-388.htm

Applications that use this media type:
The application/oxps MIME type can be used to identify CSTA XML
(ECMA-388) instance documents. No published applications or print
drivers currently use OpenXPS. The intent is for any application
or driver that can currently produce/consume Microsoft XPS to
also adopt OpenXPS. Examples of such applications would include
but are not limited to: Microsoft XPS Viewer, Microsoft XPS
Document Writer, Microsoft Internet Explorer 9.

Additional information:

Magic number(s): ZIP archive CRC-32: 504b 0304 per
http://www.pkware.com/documents/APPNOTE/APPNOTE-6.2.0.txt. Note that
is it a requirement of the consumer to ensure that the contents of
the ZIP archive is a valid OpenXPS structure.
File extension(s): .oxps
Macintosh file type code(s): not available

Windows Clipboard Name: "OpenXPS"
Macintosh Uniform Type Identifier: org.ecma.oxps conforms to com.pkware.zip-archive

Person& email address to contact for further information:

Ecma International Helpdesk
Rue du Rhone 114
CH-1204 Geneva
Switzerland
Ecma International Helpdesk<helpdesk&ecma-international.org>

Intended usage: COMMON


Restrictions on usage: N/A


Author: The ECMA-388 Standard is developed and maintained by the Ecma Technical Committee TC46.

Change controller: The ECMA-388 Standard is developed and maintained by the Ecma Technical Committee TC46.

(file created 2011-05-17)