(RFC 6066 published January 2011, subtype last updated January 2011)

MIME media type name: application
MIME subtype name: pkix-pkipath
Required parameters: none

Optional parameters: version (default value is "1")

Encoding considerations:
   Binary; this MIME type is a DER encoding of the ASN.1 type
   PkiPath, defined as follows:
     PkiPath ::= SEQUENCE OF Certificate
     PkiPath is used to represent a certification path.  Within the
     sequence, the order of certificates is such that the subject of
     the first certificate is the issuer of the second certificate,
     etc.
   This is identical to the definition published in [X509-4th-TC1];
   note that it is different from that in [X509-4th].

   All Certificates MUST conform to [RFC5280].  (This should be
   interpreted as a requirement to encode only PKIX-conformant
   certificates using this type.  It does not necessarily require
   that all certificates that are not strictly PKIX-conformant must
   be rejected by relying parties, although the security consequences
   of accepting any such certificates should be considered
   carefully.)

   DER (as opposed to BER) encoding MUST be used.  If this type is
   sent over a 7-bit transport, base64 encoding SHOULD be used.

Security considerations:
   The security considerations of [X509-4th] and [RFC5280] (or any
   updates to them) apply, as well as those of any protocol that uses
   this type (e.g., TLS).

   Note that this type only specifies a certificate chain that can be
   assessed for validity according to the relying party's existing
   configuration of trusted CAs; it is not intended to be used to
   specify any change to that configuration.

Interoperability considerations:
   No specific interoperability problems are known with this type,
   but for recommendations relating to X.509 certificates in general,
   see [RFC5280].

Published specification: This document and [RFC5280].

Applications that use this media type:
   TLS.  It may also be used by other protocols or for general
   interchange of PKIX certificate chains.

Additional information:
   Magic number(s): DER-encoded ASN.1 can be easily recognized.
     Further parsing is required to distinguish it from other ASN.1
     types.
   File extension(s): .pkipath
   Macintosh File Type Code(s): not specified

Person & email address to contact for further information:
   Magnus Nystrom <mnystrom&microsoft.com>

Intended usage: COMMON

Change controller: IESG <iesg&ietf.org>

