(registered 2017-08-11, last updated 2017-08-11)

Type name: application

Subtype name: route-s-tsid+xml

Required parameters: None.

Optional parameters: charset

If specified, the charset parameter must match the XML encoding declaration, or if absent, the encoding is determined from the XML document itself. See also "Encoding considerations" below.

Encoding considerations: Same as for application/xml, except constrained to UTF-8. See IETF 7303, Section 9.1. For the purpose of filling out the IANA Application for Media Type, the value, "binary", applies.

Security considerations: This media type inherits the issues common to all XML media types - see RFC 7303 section 10. This media format is used to describe broadcast and broadband services. This format is highly susceptible to manipulation or spoofing for attacks desiring to mislead a receiver about a session. Both integrity protection and source authentication is recommended to prevent misleading of processors. This type does not employ executable content, but since it is explicitly extensible then executable content could appear in an extension. This media type does not provide any confidentiality protection and instead relies on the transport protocol that carries it to provide such security, if needed.

Interoperability considerations: The published specification describes processing semantics that dictate behavior that must be followed when dealing with, among other things, unrecognized elements and attributes, both in the document's namespace and in other namespaces. Because this is extensible, conformant processors may expect (and enforce) that content received is well-formed XML, but it cannot be guaranteed that the content is valid to a particular DTD or Schema or that the processor will recognize all of the elements and attributes in the document.

Published specification: This media type registration is an integral part of ATSC A/331, "Signaling, Delivery, Synchronization, and Error Protection", Annex H. The payload is defined in Section 7.1.4. This specification and XML schema for the content are available at www.atsc.org/standards (the schema(s) are provided in a zip file).

Applications that use this media type: ATSC 3.0 television and Internet encoders, decoders and other facility and consumer equipment.

Additional information:

File extension(s): .sls

Macintosh file type code(s): "SLS1"

Person & email address to contact for further information: Editor, Advanced Television Systems Committee (jwhitaker&atsc.org)

Intended usage: COMMON

Restrictions on usage: None

Author: ATSC.

Change controller: ATSC.


