(file created 2012-11-27; last updated 2012-11-27)

Name : Robby Simpson, PhD

Email : rsimpson&gmail.com

MIME media type name : Application

MIME subtype name : Standards Tree sep-exi

Required parameters : level=(-|+)S[i]

Explanatory text from the specification (Section 7.8):
The base schema, used in communication, should be declared in a short
and clear string. This section defines the rules for a string used to
declare acceptable encodings and extensions of a node. The Extensibility
Level defines the base schema and its capability for arbitrary
extension. The Extensibility Level string is one of “-S0” or “+S0”. The
application/sep-exi indicates EXI capability. The S0 indicates the base
schema version: SEP2. “-S0” indicates the node does not accept arbitrary
tags that are not defined in the base schema, and “+S0” indicates it
accepts arbitrary tags. A node with “-S0” MAY return error on EXI or XML
message with arbitrary types, elements, and attributes that are not
defined in the schema used for encoding. Sending messages with arbitrary
types, elements, and attributes on nodes that declare “-S0” SHOULD be
avoided.
The format of level string is ‘(-|+)S[i]’ where i is a character to
describe base schema version (currently ‘0’). As extension of SEP2.x
schemas should be backward compatible, a node declares schema ID ‘S[i]’
can be assumed to be compatible for all versions between ‘S0’ and ‘S[i]’.
A client SHOULD check if a server accepts non-strict part of EXI
document prior to PUT/POST operations on the server before sending
message with extended attributes/elements. A server SHOULD check if a
client accepts extended non-strict part of EXI document prior to give
responses to GET operations to the client before returning message with
extended attributes/elements.

Optional parameters :
None

Encoding considerations : binary


Security considerations :
This media type is used for energy management (specifically for
conveying information such as demand response signals, pricing
information, and energy usage information) which may, depending on the
circumstances, require privacy and integrity protections. The
specification provides for this through the use of TLS.

This media type does not contain active or executable content.
However, the information provided may result in actions being taken to
adjust energy consumption or generation.

Further, this media type is used to transfer payloads encoded using
EXI. As EXI is a binary encoded form of XML, utilizing information
for encoding derived from the XML schema, there are additional
potential security risks associated with this type. First, it is
conceivable that a malicious payload could be constructed in such a
way as to expand to a much larger payload should it be decoded to XML
format. Second, although the intention of the "level" parameter is
intended to ensure schema version matches, it should be noted that
misalignment between the sender and receiver could result in a
receiver interpreting the encoded payload in a manner different than
the sender intended. For further information regarding security
considerations with the use of EXI, please see the application for the
"application/exi" media type, also available in the EXI specification,
section F.2
(http://www.w3.org/TR/2009/CR-exi-20091208/#mediaTypeRegistration).

For a more in-depth analysis of security considerations, as well as
additional detail regarding the security mechanisms employed, please
see the specification.

Interoperability considerations :


Published specification :
Smart Energy Profile 2.0, freely and publicly available at
http://zigbee.org/smartenergy

Applications which use this media :
This media type is intended to be used by any server which implements
SEP 2.0. This media type is also intended to be used by any client which
implements SEP 2.0 using EXI (as opposed to XML).

Additional information :

1. Magic number(s) : None
2. File extension(s) : None
3. Macintosh file type code : None
4. Object Identifiers: None

There is a similar application with ticket number: 596117

Please note that the suffix "-exi" was chosen after extensive discussion
on the applications mailer.

Person to contact for further information :

1. Name : Robby Simpson, PhD
2. Email : rsimpson&gmail.com

Intended usage : Common
This standard is intended for usage by any application that may use the
following information for Smart Grid home area networks for information
or control purposes: energy usage information, pricing information,
demand response and load control signals, distributed energy resource
information, etc.

Author/Change controller : ZigBee Alliance
