(registered 2013-05-16, last updated 2013-08-12)

Name : Frederic Firmin

Email : Frederic.Firmin&etsi.org

MIME media type name : Application

MIME subtype name : Standards Tree - session-info

Required parameters : none

Optional parameters : none

Encoding considerations : binary


Security considerations : Modifications of the MIME body by a
man-in-the-middle can have severe consequences: The overlap digits
that can be transported with this MIME body influence the routeing of
the SIP session that is being setup. Dual Tone Multi Frequency (DTMF)
tones that can also be transported with this MIME body will be
interpreted by the application of the end points of the communication
for various purposes. However, this MIME body is used only attached to
SIP INFO messages, and modifications of other parts of the SIP
signalling will lead to comparable consequences. Protection of the SIP
signalling will also protect the present MIME body. The SIP signalling
should be protected as described in RFC 3261.

There is no active or executable material in this MIME body.

Interoperability considerations :


Published specification : 3GPP TS 29.163 Rel-9(version 9.13.0)
(http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/html-info/29163.htm)

Applications which use this media : This MIME type is used as a
message body within SIP INFO messages. It is either used for sending
additional digits of the callee´s number, which have not previously
been sent, in SIP INFO messages ("legacy" mode of usage of the INFO
method as defined in IETF RFC 6086) when the in-dialog method is used
for overlap dialling. The same message body can also be used for
transporting Dual Tone Multi Frequency (DTMF) tones using SIP INFO
requests, using the DTMF info package (see RFC 6086) defined in Annex
P of 3GPP TS 24.229.

Additional information :

1. Magic number(s) : none 2. File extension(s) : none 3. Macintosh
file type code : none 4. Object Identifiers: none

none

Person to contact for further information :

1. Name : Frederic Firmin
2. Email : Frederic.Firmin&etsi.org

Intended usage : Limited Use


Author: Technical Contact : Dr. Thomas Belling (thomas.belling&nsn.com)
Change Controller: Frederic Firmin (Frederic.Firmin&etsi.org)