

From Harald.T.Alvestrand&uninett.no  Tue Aug 20 15:09:32 1996
From: Harald.T.Alvestrand&uninett.no
To: iana&isi.edu
Subject: MIME registration of sgml-open-catalog?
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Date: Tue, 20 Aug 1996 13:09:32 +0200
Sender: Harald.T.Alvestrand&uninett.no
Content-Length: 4240
Status: RO
X-Lines: 80

Jon and Joyce,
did you get a registration around february this year with the
content below?
It should have come from Paul Grosso (paul&arbortext.com).

              Harald A

==== registration statement

To: ietf-types&uninett.no
Cc: mime-sgml IETF working group <sgml-internet&ebt.com>
Subject: Registration of MIME media type Application/SGML-Open-Catalog

MIME media type name:    Application
MIME subtype name:       SGML-Open-Catalog
Required parameters:     none
Optional parameters:     charset
        For use over the Internet, a catalog may use only a single character
        repertoire.  (A character repertoire describes a set of characters,
        where a character is an atom of information.  A character repertoire 
        does not describe any of the common attributes typically associated 
        with a character such as the character's form or coded representation.
        For example, the letter capital cee is a character, it can take the 
        form C and has the US-ASCII coded representation of 67 decimal.)
        The mapping from the sequence of octets making up the message body, 
        to the sequence of characters making up the catalog, is indicated by 
        the charset parameter of the Content-Type MIME header line [RFC1521].  

        The value of the charset parameter must be one that is registered
        with IANA [RFC1700], or employ an extension-token, such as X-big10. 
        In general, it should be possible to infer the character repertoire 
        and coded character set from the name of the encoding.

        If no value is supplied, the default shall be US-ASCII.
Encoding considerations: Some encodings of coded character sets may
                         require that an additional
                         content-transfer-encoding be applied. 
Security considerations: This media type contains SGML references to 
                         external object, files, and programs.  Its use
                         does present security implications due to the 
                         access of these entities by SGML systems.
                         However, these security concerns are the same as 
                         those for the operation of any SGML system and 
                         are addressed in the SGML specifications.
Interoperability considerations: The specification for this media type 
                         (see "Published specification" below) provides 
                         for extensions by allowing for other information, 
                         i.e., <keyword, argument+> pairs.  The usefulness 
                         of such other information will depend on the range 
                         of recognition of each such extension.  However, 
                         the specification indicates that a processor of 
                         this media type shall be able to process a catalog 
                         even if it does not recognize the meaning of such 
                         an extension.
Published specification: SGML Open Technical Resolution TR9401:1995,
                         "Entity Management".
                         SGML Open
                         910 Beaver Grade Road, #3008
                         Coraopolis, PA  15109  
                         USA
                         <info&sgmlopen.org>
Person and email address to contact for further information:
                         Paul Grosso <paul&arbortext.com>
                         ArborText, Inc.
                         1000 Victors Way
                         Ann Arbor, Michigan  48108
                         USA
Intended usage:          LIMITED USE
                         This media type is intended for use with 
                         systems that support the SGML Open TR9401:1995
                         specification.
Author/Change controller:
                         Paul Grosso <paul&arbortext.com>
Additional Information:
   The SGML Open Catalog specification, TR9401, does not contain any
   version information.  All versions are expected to be backward
   compatible; amendments to the specification are expected only to
   recognize certain "extensions" as official parts of the specification.





