(RFC 4194 published October 2005, subtype last updated October 2005)

o  Registration: application/shf+xml
o  MIME media type name: application
o  MIME subtype name: shf+xml
o  Required parameters: charset

Required parameters: charset

This parameter must exist and must be set to "UTF-8".  No other
character sets are allowed for transporting SHF data.  The character
set designator MUST be uppercase.

Encoding considerations:

This media type may contain binary content; accordingly, when used
over a transport that does not permit binary transfer, an appropriate
encoding must be applied.

Security considerations:

A hex Dump in itself has no other security considerations than what
applies for any other XML file.  However, the included binary data
may in decoded form contain any executable code for a target
platform.  If additional security is desired, additional transport
security solutions may be applied.  For target code contained in a
hex Dump, developers may want to include certificates, checksums, and
the like in hexdump form for the target platform.  Such uses are
outside the scope of this document and a matter of implementation.

Interoperability considerations:

n/a

Published specification:

This media type is a proper subset of the XML 1.0 specification [5].
One restriction is made: no entity references other than the five
predefined general entities references ("&amp;", "&lt;", "&gt;",
"&apos;", and "&quot;") and numeric entity references may be present.
Neither the "XML" declaration (e.g., <?xml version="1.0" ?>) nor the
"DOCTYPE" declaration (e.g., <!DOCTYPE ...>) need be present.  (XML
fragments are allowed.)  All other XML 1.0 instructions (e.g., CDATA
blocks, processing instructions, and so on) are allowed.

Applications that use this media type: any program or individual
wishing to make use of this XML 1.0 subset for hexdump exchange.

Additional information:

o  Magic number: There is no single initial Byte sequence that is
   always present for SHF files
o  File extension: shf
o  Macintosh File Type code: none

Intended usage: COMMON.

Author/Change controller: this MIME transport type is controlled by
the IETF.
