(RFC 4536 published May 2006, subtype last updated May 2006)

MIME media type name: application

MIME subtype name: smil

Required parameters: none

Optional parameters:

   charset

      Same as charset parameter considerations of application/xml in
      RFC 3023.

   profile

      See Section 5 of this document.

Encoding considerations:

   Same as encoding considerations of application/xml in RFC 3023

Security considerations: See Section 6, "Security Considerations", of
this document.

Interoperability considerations:

   SMIL documents contain links to other media objects.  The SMIL
   player must be able to decode the media types of these media in
   order to display the whole document.  To increase
   interoperability, SMIL has provisions for including alternate
   versions of a media object in a document.

Published specification: See [1], [2], and [3]

Applications which use this media type:

   SMIL players and editors

Additional information:

   Semantics of fragment identifiers in URIs: The SMIL media type
   allows a fragment identifier to be appended to a URI pointing to a
   SMIL resource (e.g., http://www.example.com/test.smil#foo).  The
   semantics of fragment identifiers for SMIL resources are defined
   in the SMIL specification.

Magic number(s):

   There is no single initial byte sequence that is always present
   for SMIL files.  However, Section 4 of this document gives some
   guidelines for recognizing SMIL files.

File extension(s): .smil, .smi, .sml

NOTE: On the Windows operating system and the Macintosh platform, the
".smi" extension is used by other formats.  To avoid conflicts, it is
thus recommended to use the extension ".smil" for storing SMIL files
on these platforms.

Macintosh File Type Code(s): "TEXT", ".SMI", "SMIL"

Object Identifier(s) or OID(s): none

Person & email address to contact for further information:

The author of this memo.

Intended usage: OBSOLETE

Author/Change controller:

The SMIL specification is a work product of the World Wide Web
Consortium's SYMM Working Group.

The W3C has change control over the specification.



