(file created 2013-02-27, last updated 2013-04-02)

Type name: application

Subtype name: sql

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters:

  "charset" -- indicates the character set to be used.  When not
  specified, a default value MUST NOT be assumed without inspection
  of the content.

  Implementors should be aware that SQL may carry character set
  information in-band.  In such cases, the "charset" parameter MUST
  NOT be used in order to avoid conflict.  In cases where no
  character set information is supplied in-band, and the character
  set is known, implementors SHOULD use the "charset" parameter.  If
  no in-band or out-of-band character set information is available,
  implementors MUST NOT specify the "charset" parameter.

Encoding considerations:

  If the "charset" parameter is used, the corresponding 7-bit, 8-bit,
  or binary encoding may be used.  If the "charset" parameter is not
  used, binary encoding may be required.

Security considerations:

  Being that SQL is a full-fledged programming language and may
  include embedded source code for other programming languages,
  there is a risk of it being used to transfer malware, viruses, and
  other malicious payloads.  Implementors and users are encouraged
  only to exchange SQL files among trusted parties and utilize all
  available security measures, such as restricted access, virus
  scanners, etc., to minimize risk.

  Implementors should be aware that guessing character sets,
  encodings, and possible conflicts between in-band and out-of-band
  character set information may lead to the similar security issues
  as described above.

  Implementors should also be aware that SQL does not provide or
  guarantee any sort of confidentiality and integrity checking, and
  SQL files can expose account information or private information
  about database structure and contents.  It is therefore important
  for applications to provide confidentiality and protection against
  modification by malicious third parties while in transit.

Interoperability considerations:

  While a single standard exists ([ISO.9075.2011]), vendor
  implementations of the standard vary significantly.  Implementors
  and users should make sure that the exchanged SQL files match to
  the specific database/tool and version that they are using.

Published specification:

  The most recent specification of SQL is available in
  [ISO.9075.2011].

Applications that use this media type:

  Databases and related tools

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Additional information:

  Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A

  Magic number(s): N/A

  File extension(s): sql

  Macintosh File Type Code(s): N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

  Yakov Shafranovich <ietf&shaftek.org>

Intended usage: COMMON

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Author: IESG

Change controller: IESG

Provisional registration? (standards tree only): N/A