(RFC 4267 published November 2005, subtype last updated November 2005)

MIME media type name: application

MIME subtype names: srgs

Required parameters: none

Optional parameters: none

Encoding Considerations

The ABNF Form of SRGS follows the character encoding handling defined
for XML: an ABNF grammar processor must accept both the UTF-8 and
UTF-16 encodings of ISO/IEC 10646 and may support other character
encodings.

Interoperability Considerations

There are no known interoperability issues.

Published Specifications

Speech Recognition Grammar Specification Version 1.0 [SRGS]

Applications That Use This Media Type

Various SRGS implementations use this media type.

Security Considerations

Several instructions in SRGS may cause arbitrary URIs to be
dereferenced. In this case, the security issues of [RFC3986],
section 7, should be considered.

In addition, because of the extensibility features of SRGS, it is
possible that the registered media types may describe content that
has security implications beyond those described here. However, if
the processor follows only the normative semantics of the
specifications, this content will be ignored. Only in the case where
the processor recognizes and processes the additional content, or
where further processing of that content is dispatched to other
processors, would security issues potentially arise. In that case,
they would fall outside the domain of this registration document.

Additional Information

Magic Numbers

The ABNF self-identifying header must be present in any legal stand-
alone ABNF Form grammar document. The first character of an ABNF
document must be the "#" symbol (x23) unless preceded by an optional
XML 1.0 byte order mark. The ABNF byte order mark follows the XML
definition and requirements. For example, documents encoded in UTF-
16 must begin with the byte order mark. The optional byte order mark
and required "#" symbol must be followed immediately by the exact
string "ABNF" (x41 x42 x4d x46) or the appropriate equivalent for the
document's encoding (e.g., for UTF-16 little-endian: x23 x00 x41 x00
x42 x00 x4d x00 x46 x00). If the byte order mark is absent on a
grammar encoded in UTF-16, then the grammar processor should perform
auto-detection of character encoding in a manner analogous to auto-
detection of character encoding in XML. Next follows a single-space
character (x20) and the required version number, which is "1.0" for
this specification (x31 x2e x30).

File Extensions

.gram

Macintosh File Type Code

"TEXT"

Person and Email Address to Contact for Further Information

World Wide Web Consortium <web-human&w3.org>

Intended Usage

COMMON

Change Controller

The SRGS specification is a work product of the World Wide Web
Consortium's Voice Browser Working Group. The W3C has change control
over the SRGS specification.