(registered 2024-06-07, last updated 2024-06-07)

Media type name: application

Media subtype name: ST2110-41

Required parameters: 

rate: RTP timestamp clock rate, as specified in Clause 5.3 of SMPTE ST 2110-41. The rate parameter shall appear in the rtpmap clause of the SDP.

SSN: The full SMPTE standard number (including year) associated with the stream. SSN=SMPTE2110- 41:2024 for streams compliant to this specification.

Optional parameters: 

DIT: The comma-separated list of Data Item Types, as specified in Clause 6 of SMPTE ST 2110-41.

This RTP payload format contains a multiplex of different application data elements. Some data element definition documents may specify additional format-specific media parameters, which if present, must be included in the a=fmtp clause of the SDP.

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations: RTP packets using the payload format defined in this specification are subject to the same considerations as outlined in IETF RFC 3190 Section 9. Those considerations are incorporated here by reference.

Interoperability considerations: Care was taken in the development of this payload specification to retain compatibility with existing Ravenna system implementation.

Published specification: SMPTE ST 2110-41 is the authoritative reference document for the registration of this media type and payload format.

Applications which use this media: This media type is used by professional equipment commonly found in the television production and distribution industry, for the transport and intercommunication of metadata about media streams.

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Additional information:

1. Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A
2. Magic number(s): N/A
3. File extension(s): N/A
4. Macintosh file type code: N/A
5. Object Identifiers: N/A

Person to contact for further information:

1. Name: SMPTE Director of Standards Development
2. Email: dir.standards&smpte.org

Intended usage: COMMON

This media type is intended for common use. It is restricted to use within the context of RTP framing and is defined only for transfer via RTP as defined in IETF RFC 3550. Transport within other framing protocols is not defined.

Author/Change controller: This document is change-controlled by the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers (SMPTE).