(registered 2019-09-03, last updated 2019-09-03)

Name: David Waltermire

Email: david.waltermire&nist.gov

Media type name: application

Media subtype name: swid+xml

Required parameters: None

Optional parameters:
   "charset": This parameter has semantics identical to the charset 
      parameter of the "application/xml" media type as specified in 
      [RFC7303].

   "version": This parameter specifies the version of the ISO/IEC 
      19770-2 standard. This should be a four numerical digit string 
      representing a year. For example, "2009" for 2009 revision, or 
      "2015" for the 2015 revision of the ISO/IEC 19770-2 standard. 
      This parameter can be used to select from multiple SWID media 
      corresponding to different revisions without needing to 
      retrieve and parse the related resources.

Encoding considerations: Identical to those of "application/xml" as 
   described in [RFC7303]

Security considerations: As this media type is an XML-based format, 
   it shares the same security considerations as described in 
   [RFC7303], Section 10.

   While Software identification (SWID) Tags are not executable 
   files, SWID Tags allow the inclusion of additional metadata 
   attributes and material in other namespaces, either of which can 
   contain executable material. Parsers need to take precautions to 
   prevent malicious or dangerous code from executing. In some cases,
   the information inside of a SWID tag may be used to drive other 
   processes, in which case care should be taken to verify the SWID 
   Tag as described below.

   SWID Tags are usually distributed alongside software, as part of a 
   software install or software package. In these cases, a SWID tag 
   maintains the same level of trust as any other part of the 
   software installation. If the software can be trusted or verified, 
   the SWID Tag can be considered trusted as well.

   When downloading a separate SWID Tag, care should be taken to 
   verify the SWID Tag through a signature validation or hashing 
   procedure.

   SWID Tags can be signed using XML Signature Syntax and Processing 
   as specified by the W3C. SWID Tags are often used as authoritative 
   information from the software vendor. In these cases, the SWID Tag 
   should be signed by this same entity, which allows consumers to 
   verify the origin of the SWID tag and that the SWID tag has not 
   been tampered with. In non-authoritative use cases, signing of 
   tags is still preferable, but less vital.

   ISO SWID tags can contain URLs referring to external objects, 
   which may need to be resolved and processed as part of using the 
   tag.

   ISO SWID tags often refer to external files related to the 
   software described by the SWID Tag. These file references should 
   include a hash value, allowing the referenced file's integrity to 
   be verified. SWID Tags allow for multiple hash values to be 
   provided using different hash algorithms.

Interoperability considerations: There are no known interoperability 
   issues.

Published specification: ISO/IEC 19770-2: Information technology -- 
   Software asset management -- Part 2: Software identification tag

Applications which use this media: Various software packages include 
   SWID Tags. Various endpoint management software suites search for 
   and parse SWID Tags.

Fragment identifier considerations: As specified for "+xml" 
   registrations in [RFC7303], Section 5.

Restrictions on usage: None

Additional information:
   1. Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A 
   2. Magic number(s): As specified for "application/xml" in 
      [RFC7303], Section 3.2 
   3. File extension(s): .swidtag 
   4. Macintosh file type code: TEXT 
   5. Object Identifiers: N/A

Person to contact for further information:
   1. Name: David Waltermire, Ron Brill 
   2. Email: david.waltermire&nist.gov, Ronb&anglepoint.com

Intended usage: Common

Author/Change controller: ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 7/WG 21