(registered 2018-07-11, last updated 2018-07-11)

Name: Chet Ensign

Email: chet.ensign&oasis-open.org

Media type name: application

Media subtype name: taxii+json

Required parameters: None

Optional parameters: version. 
   This parameter is used to designate the specification version of 
   TAXII that is being used during HTTP content negotiation. Example:
   "application/taxii+json;version=2.1". The parameter value is of 
   the form 'n.m', where n is the major version and m the minor 
   version, both unsigned integer values.

Encoding considerations: binary
   Encoding considerations are identical to those specified for the 
  "application/json" media type. See [RFC8259].

Security considerations: These considerations are, in part, derived 
   from Section 9 of the Resource-Oriented Lightweight Information 
   Exchange [RFC8322].

   This document defines a resource-oriented approach for exchanging 
   cyber threat intelligence using HTTP [RFC7230] over TLS [RFC5246] 
   and the JSON [RFC8259] Format. As such, implementers must 
   understand the security considerations described in those 
   specifications. All that follows is guidance; instructions that 
   are more specific are out of scope for this document.

   Security considerations relating to the generation and consumption 
   of TAXII messages are similar to application/json and are 
   discussed in Section 12 of [RFC8259].

   The discovery API contains one or multiple URLs, therefor the 
   security considerations stated in Section 6 of [RFC1738] should be
   consulted especially in regards to parsing relative URLs and 
   attempts of path traversal. 

   Documents of "application/taxii+json" are simply request and 
   response messages for an RPC like mechanism for searching, 
   uploading and downloading Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) 
   documents, most commonly STIX. The documents only contain metadata
   about the TAXII server, such as descriptions, versions of CTI or 
   status response of the request. Documents do not contain active or
   executable content.

   Unicode is used to represent text such as descriptions in the 
   format. The considerations documented by Unicode Technical Report 
   #36: Unicode Security Considerations [UNICODE] should be taken 
   into account.

   To protect the confidentiality of a given resource provided by a 
   TAXII implementation, requests for retrieval of a resource need to
   be authenticated to prevent unauthorized users from accessing the 
   resource. It can also be useful to log and audit access to 
   sensitive resources to verify that proper access controls remain 
   in place over time.

   Access control to content made available using TAXII should use 
   mechanisms that are appropriate to the sensitivity of the 
   information. While the primitive authentication mechanism of HTTP 
   Basic Authentication [RFC7617] is mandatory to implement for base 
   level interoperability it is rarely appropriate for sensitive
   information. A number of authentication schemes are defined in the 
   "HTTP Authentication Schemes" registry at IANA [IANA AUTH]. Of 
   these, HTTP Origin-Bound Authentication (HOBA) [RFC7486] and 
   SCRAM-SHA-256 [RFC7804] ("SCRAM" stands for "Salted Challenge 
   Response Authentication Mechanism") provide improved security 
   properties over HTTP Basic [RFC7617] and Digest [RFC7616] 
   authentication schemes. However, sharing communities that are 
   engaged in sensitive collaborative analysis and/or operational 
   response for indicators and incidents targeting high-value 
   information systems should adopt a suitably stronger user
   authentication solution, such as a risk-based or multi-fact
   or approach.

   Collaborating consortiums may benefit from the adoption of a 
   federated identity solution, such as those based upon OAuth 
   [RFC6749] with the JSON Web Token (JWT) [RFC7797], or SAML-core 
   [SAML-core] ("SAML" stands for "Security Assertion Markup 
   Language"), SAML-bind [SAML-bind], and SAML-prof [SAML-prof] for 
   web-based authentication and cross-organizational single sign-on. 
   Dependency on a trusted third-party identity provider implies that 
   appropriate care must be exercised to sufficiently secure the 
   identity provider. Any attacks on the federated identity system 
   would present a risk to the consortium, as a relying party. 
   Potential mitigations include deployment of a federation-aware 
   identity provider that is under the control of the 
   information-sharing consortium, with suitably stringent technical 
   and management controls.

   It is recommended that all TAXII servers authenticate and 
   authorize access to all collection data on a per-client basis 
   using robust security methods. While this specification defines 
   HTTP Basic as a minimum suggested authentication mechanism, more 
   advanced security authentication methods are recommended when 
   products or deployments require stronger authentication and 
   authorization frameworks for accessing or posting data to the 
   TAXII server.

   Authorization of resource representations is the responsibility of 
   the source system, i.e., based on the authenticated user identity 
   associated with an HTTP(S) request. The required authorization 
   policies that are to be enforced must therefore be managed by the 
   security administrators of the source system. Various 
   authorization architectures would be suitable for this purpose, 
   such as Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) [NIST RBAC] and/or 
   Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC), as embodied in the 
   eXtensible Access Control Markup Language (XACML) [XACML]. In 
   particular, implementers adopting XACML may benefit from the 
   capability to represent their authorization policies in a 
   standardized, interoperable format. Note that implementers are 
   free to choose any suitable authorization mechanism that is 
   capable of fulfilling the policy enforcement requirements relevant 
   to their consortium and/or organization.

   While the authentication and confidentiality for the TAXII session 
   is done at a lower level via the transport mechanism (HTTPS), this 
   does not obviate the consumer (server or client) from validating 
   the format and contents of the documents sent in a session. This 
   validation should includes checking various limits, such as 
   document size limits, to limit the risk of the other party 
   attempting to attack the service.

   Additional security requirements such as enforcing message-level 
   security at the destination system could supplement the security 
   enforcements performed at the source system; however, these 
   destination-provided policy enforcements are out of scope for this 
   specification. Implementers requiring this capability should 
   consider leveraging, for example, the <RIDPolicy> element in the 
   RID schema. Refer to Section 9 of [RFC6545] for more information. 
   Additionally, the underlying JSON serialization used in the 
   representation can offer encryption and message authentication 
   capabilities. For example, JSON Web Encryption [RFC7516] and JSON 
   Web Signature [RFC7515], can provide such mechanisms.

   TAXII Servers may manage response volume in different ways. 
   Implementers should be aware that a search request may return more 
   records than is prudent to return in a single HTTP Response. To 
   mitigate this, TAXII servers should consider implementing 
   restrictions on the number of records it will return in a single 
   HTTP response.

   TAXII provides clients a rich set of filtering and query options 
   to return specific results from repositories of CTI data. As such, 
   TAXII servers should implement protections against queries that 
   can potentially consume a significant amount of resources and 
   prevent the server from functioning in a normal way. 

   TAXII defines an optional error message that may contain sensitive 
   application data. Implementers should ensure that they do not leak 
   descriptive text or application return codes for things that a 
   user may not have access to, for example leak info about existence 
   of something, implementation of something, vs. just not having 
   access. 

   Note: Despite TAXII searching and returning STIX objects, this 
   format does not encapsulate any CTI content. It is expected that 
   CTI documents will be sent with the appropriate mime-type. For 
   these, consult their own security consideration sections.

Privacy considerations: These considerations are, in part, derived 
   from Section 10 of the Resource-Oriented Lightweight Information 
   Exchange [RFC8322].

   The documents contain various descriptions and other text. There 
   is no expectation that these will contain private information, but 
   as some may be user provided, there is no guarantee that a user 
   will not inadvertently include private data. It is expected that 
   the client or server authenticate the other party through the 
   transport mechanism before sending any possible private data. As 
   the protocol is about sharing data, it is expected that the 
   parties understand their obligations in keeping relevant data 
   private.

   Adoption of the information-sharing approach described in this 
   document will enable users to more easily perform correlations 
   across separate, and potentially unrelated, cybersecurity 
   information providers. A client may succeed in assembling a data 
   set that would not have been permitted within the context of the 
   authorization policies of either provider when considered 
   individually. Thus, providers may face a risk of an attacker 
   obtaining an access that constitutes an undetected separation of 
   duties (SOD) violation. It is important to note that this risk is 
   not unique to this specification, and a similar potential for 
   abuse exists with any other cybersecurity information-sharing 
   protocol. However, the wide availability of tools for HTTP clients 
   implies that the resources and technical skills required for a 
   successful exploit may be less than it was previously. This risk 
   can be best mitigated through appropriate vetting of the client at 
   the time of account provisioning. In addition, any increase in the 
   risk of this type of abuse should be offset by the corresponding 
   increase in effectiveness that this specification affords to the 
   defenders.

   Overall, privacy concerns in TAXII can be mitigated by following 
   security considerations and by the careful use of the content 
   exchanged via TAXII.

Interoperability considerations: The TAXII specification specifies 
   the format of conforming messages and the interpretation thereof. 
   In addition, the OASIS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Technical 
   Committee has defined interoperability tests to ensure conforming 
   products and solutions can exchange TAXII documents.

Published specification:
   TAXII Version 2.0 OASIS Committee Specification 01
   http://docs.oasis-open.org/cti/taxii/v2.0/cs01/taxii-v2.0-cs01.html
   Cited in the "OASIS Standards" document:
   https://www.oasis-open.org/standards#oasiscommiteespecs, from
   https://www.oasis-open.org/standards#taxii2.0

Applications which use this media: TAXII is an application layer 
   protocol for the communication of cyber threat information 
   including STIX in a simple and scalable manner.

Fragment identifier considerations: None

Restrictions on usage: None

Additional information:

   1. Deprecated alias names for this type:    
      application/vnd.oasis.taxii+json
   2. Magic number(s): n/a [RFC8259]
   3. File extension(s): None
   4. Macintosh file type code: TEXT [RFC8259]
   5. Object Identifiers: None

General Comments:
   1. The "Published specification:" cited above was approved as 
      Version 2.0 but is now under active revision (2018-05)

   2. The revised TAXII specification Version 2.1 will contain the 
      complete text of the (finalized) IANA Media Type Registration 
      in an Appendix; in Version 2.0 the media type identifier was 
      drafted (incorrectly) as a candidate for the vendor tree

   3. The technical content in the Version 2.1 revision for TAXII 
      does not materially change anything vis-a-vis TAXII Version 2.0 
      as respects serialization, transport, or client-server 
      interactions that depend upon media type and content negotiation

Person to contact for further information:

   1. Name: Chet Ensign
   2. Email: chet.ensign&oasis-open.org

Intended usage: COMMON

Author/Change controller: 

   Author: OASIS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Technical Committee;
   URI reference: http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/cti/. 
   Change controller: OASIS