(registered 2016-11-30, last updated 2016-11-30)

Name: Philippe Le Hegaret
Email: plh&w3.org

Media type name: application
Media subtype name: trig

Required parameters: None

Optional parameters:
None

Encoding considerations: 8bit
The syntax of TriG is expressed over code points in Unicode. The encoding is always UTF-8.
Unicode code points may also be expressed using an \uXXXX (U+0000 to U+FFFF) or \UXXXXXXXX syntax (for U+10000 onwards) where X is a hexadecimal digit [0-9A-Fa-f]


Security considerations:
TriG is a general-purpose assertion language; applications may evaluate given data to infer more assertions or to dereference IRIs, invoking the security considerations of the scheme for that IRI. Note in particular, the privacy issues in [RFC3023] section 10 for HTTP IRIs. Data obtained from an inaccurate or malicious data source may lead to inaccurate or misleading conclusions, as well as the dereferencing of unintended IRIs. Care must be taken to align the trust in consulted resources with the sensitivity of the intended use of the data; inferences of potential medical treatments would likely require different trust than inferences for trip planning.

TriG is used to express arbitrary application data; security considerations will vary by domain of use. Security tools and protocols applicable to text (e.g. PGP encryption, MD5 sum validation, password-protected compression) may also be used on TriG documents. Security/privacy protocols must be imposed which reflect the sensitivity of the embedded information.

TriG can express data which is presented to the user, for example, RDF Schema labels. Application rendering strings retrieved from untrusted TriG documents must ensure that malignant strings may not be used to mislead the reader. The security considerations in the media type registration for XML ([RFC3023] section 10) provide additional guidance around the expression of arbitrary data and markup.

TriG uses IRIs as term identifiers. Applications interpreting data expressed in TriG should address the security issues of Internationalized Resource Identifiers (IRIs) [RFC3987] Section 8, as well as Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax [RFC3986] Section 7.

Multiple IRIs may have the same appearance. Characters in different scripts may look similar (a Cyrillic "о" may appear similar to a Latin "o"). A character followed by combining characters may have the same visual representation as another character (LATIN SMALL LETTER E followed by COMBINING ACUTE ACCENT has the same visual representation as LATIN SMALL LETTER E WITH ACUTE). Any person or application that is writing or interpreting data in TriG must take care to use the IRI that matches the intended semantics, and avoid IRIs that make look similar. Further information about matching of similar characters can be found in Unicode Security Considerations [UNICODE-SECURITY] and Internationalized Resource Identifiers (IRIs) [RFC3987], Section 8.


Interoperability considerations:
There are no known interoperability issues.

Published specification:
https://www.w3.org/TR/2014/REC-trig-20140225/

Applications which use this media:
No widely deployed applications are known to use this media type. It may be used by some web services and clients consuming their data.

Fragment identifier considerations:
None

Restrictions on usage:
None

Provisional registration? (standards tree only):
None

Additional information:

1. Deprecated alias names for this type: None
2. Magic number(s): TriG documents may have the strings 'prefix' or 'base'.
3. File extension(s): .trig
4. Macintosh file type code: TEXT
5. Object Identifiers: None

General Comments:
None

Person to contact for further information:

1. Name: RDF Working Group
2. Email: public-rdf-comments&w3.org

Intended usage: Common
None

Author/Change controller: The TriG specification is the product of the RDF WG. The W3C reserves change control over this specifications.