MIME media type name:
application

MIME subtype name:
xslt+xml

Required parameters:
None.

Optional parameters:
charset
This parameter has identical semantics to the charset parameter of the application/xml media type as specified in [RFC3023].

Encoding considerations:
By virtue of XSLT content being XML, it has the same considerations when sent as "application/xslt+xml" as does XML. See RFC 3023, section 3.2.

Security considerations:
Several XSLT instructions may cause arbitrary URIs to be dereferenced. In this case, the security issues of [RFC3986], section 7, should be considered.

In addition, because of the extensibility features for XSLT, it is possible that "application/xslt+xml" may describe content that has security implications beyond those described here. However, if the processor follows only the normative semantics of this specification, this content will be ignored. Only in the case where the processor recognizes and processes the additional content, or where further processing of that content is dispatched to other processors, would security issues potentially arise. And in that case, they would fall outside the domain of this registration document.

Interoperability considerations:
This specification describes processing semantics that dictate behavior that must be followed when dealing with, among other things, unrecognized elements.

Because XSLT is extensible, conformant "application/xslt+xml" processors can expect that content received is well-formed XML, but it cannot be guaranteed that the content is valid XSLT or that the processor will recognize all of the elements and attributes in the document.

Published specification:
This media type registration is for XSLT stylesheet modules as described by the XSLT 2.0 specification, which is located at http://www.w3.org/TR/xslt20/. It is also appropriate to use this media type with earlier and later versions of the XSLT language.

Applications which use this media type:
Existing XSLT 1.0 stylesheets are most often described using the unregistered media type "text/xsl".

There is no experimental, vendor specific, or personal tree predecessor to "application/xslt+xml", reflecting the fact that no applications currently recognize it. This new type is being registered in order to allow for the expected deployment of XSLT 2.0 on the World Wide Web, as a first class XML application.

Additional information:

Magic number(s):
There is no single initial octet sequence that is always present in XSLT documents.

File extension(s):
XSLT documents are most often identified with the extensions ".xsl" or ".xslt".

Macintosh File Type Code(s):
TEXT

Person & email address to contact for further information:
Norman Walsh, <Norman.Walsh&Sun.COM>.

Intended usage:
COMMON

Author/Change controller:
The XSLT specification is a work product of the World Wide Web Consortium's XSL Working Group. The W3C has change control over these specifications.