Namespace Registration for Connectivity Standards Alliance (CSA)

Namespace Identifier:  csa

Version:  1

Date:  2025-04-14

Registrant:

   Name:
       Connectivity Standards Alliance 

   Address:
       Connectivity Standards Alliance
       508 2nd Street, Suite 109B, Davis, CA 95616 USA

   Designated Contact Person:
       Name: Aron Rosenberg
       Email: iana-registrations&csa-iot.org

   Organization Type:
       Standards Development Organization (non-profit corp)
       (requesting fast-track registration procedure)

Purpose:

The Connectivity Standards Alliance (CSA) is an internationally
recognized standards development organization developing standards such
as Zigbee and Matter. The CSA is made up of independent Working Groups
which define the individual protocols it creates. CSA's Matter Working
Group develops standards for smart home products built on IP 
technologies.

The CSA's Matter Working Group references other accepted industry
standards where possible, such as MPEG-CMAF, W3C/WHAT HTML5, W3C/IETF
WebRTC, MPEG-DASH, and MPEG4. Through the process of this referencing,
the Matter Working Group also produces artifacts such as binding 
specifications or compatibility schemes that are intended to enable 
common understanding and interpretation within a runtime environment. 
To provide a common well-defined identifier for these artifacts in areas 
where those other standards utilize URNs, the Matter Working Group 
intends to use the URN syntax for its specific payloads, and therefore 
the CSA is requesting a formal namespace to be assigned to the 
organization.

The URNs assigned by CSA will be used in a variety of systems ranging 
from device-to-device and device-to-server deployment scenarios.

The CSA members and larger population of Internet developers will 
benefit from the usage of the assigned URNs as they will identify the 
binding specifications and compatibility schemes defined and maintained 
by the CSA.

Syntax:

URNs assigned by CSA will have the following structure based on the 
organizational structure of the resources specified in the CSA 
specifications:

   urn:csa:{NSS}

where the syntax of "NSS" is specified in Section 2 of the URN 
specification [RFC8141]. The CSA plans for the NSS to have a 
hierarchical structure with that structure being defined in CSA-issued 
specifications with each Working Group managing its NSS. The first 
intended use would be under:
   
   urn:csa:matter:{NSS}

Assignment:

The individual URNs shall be assigned through the formal process of 
standardization by the CSA's Working Groups. The latest information 
about CSA defined standards and specifications, including Matter 
specifications, can be found at https://csa-iot.org/ 

Security and Privacy: 

There are no additional security considerations other than those 
normally associated with the use and resolution of URNs in general, 
which are described in [RFC1737] and [RFC8141].

This document registers a namespace for CSA URNs. CSA may assign special 
meaning to certain of the characters of the Namespace Specific String 
(NSS) in its specifications. Any security consideration resulting from 
such an assignment is outside the scope of this document.

Interoperability:

There are no known interoperability issues for the requested urn 
namespace.

Resolution:

Resolution mechanisms are not intended or anticipated for URNs assigned 
within the namespace as they will be utilized across a wide variety of 
systems and use cases.

Documentation:  

None.

Additional Information:

None.

Revision Information:

None.