Namespace Registration for Consumer Technology Association (CTA)

Namespace Identifier:  cta

Version:  1

Date:  2023-07-31

Registrant:

   Name:
       Consumer Technology Association 

   Address:
       Consumer Technology Association
       1919 S. Eads St, Arlington, VA 22202 USA

   Designated Contact Person:
       Name: Michael Bergman
       Role: Vice president, technology and standards
       Email: standards&cta.tech

Purpose:

The Consumer Technology Association (CTA) is an ANSI-accredited 
standards development organization supporting industry through voluntary 
consensus standards development since 1924. CTA’s R-committees, such as 
R4 Audio and Video Systems Committee, develop standards and guidance in 
a wide range of technologies.  

Along with R-committees and other activities at CTA, CTA hosts the CTA 
WAVE Project, which is focused on commercial internet video and web 
applications, and developing interoperability for global compatibility. 
The WAVE Project references accepted industry standards where possible, 
such as MPEG-CMAF, W3C/WHAT HTML5 and MSE/EME, MPEG-DASH and HLS. 
Through the process of this referencing, the CTA WAVE Project also 
produces artifacts such as binding specifications or compatibility 
schemes that are intended to enable common understanding and
interpretation within a runtime environment. To provide a common 
well-defined identifier for these artifacts, the CTA WAVE project 
intends to use the URN syntax and CTA is therefore requesting a formal 
namespace to be assigned to the organization.

URNs assigned by CTA will be used in a variety of systems ranging from 
server-to-server based processing environments to server-to-client based 
deployment scenarios.

The community of CTA members and larger population of Internet video and 
web application developers will benefit from the usage of the assigned 
URNs as they will identify the binding specifications and compatibility 
schemes defined and maintained by the CTA WAVE project.

Syntax:

URNs assigned by CTA will have the following structure based on the 
organizational structure of the resources specified in the CTA 
specifications:

   urn:cta:{NSS}

where the syntax of “NSS” is specified in Section 2 of the URN Syntax 
requirements [RFC8141]. The CTA plans for the NSS to have a hierarchical 
structure and will provide a description of the structure as an update 
following alignment on use cases across the CTA.

Assignment:

The individual URNs shall be assigned through the process of development 
of CTA specifications by the CTA WAVE Project. Other projects and 
committees at CTA will assign individual URNs in coordination with CTA 
WAVE and under CTA overall management. The latest information about 
CTA defined standards and specifications, including CTA WAVE Project 
specifications, can be found at https://www.cta.tech/Standards. 

Security and Privacy: 

There are no additional security considerations other than those 
normally associated with the use and resolution of URNs in general, 
which are described in [RFC1737] and [RFC8141].

This document registers a namespace for URNs. CTA may assign special 
meaning to certain of the characters of the Namespace Specific String 
(NSS) in its specifications. Any security consideration resulting from 
such an assignment is outside the scope of this document.

Interoperability:

There are no known interoperability issues for the requested urn 
namespace.

Resolution:

Resolution mechanisms are not intended or anticipated for URNs assigned 
within the namespace as they will be utilized across a wide variety of 
systems and use cases.

Documentation:  

None.

Additional Information:

None.

Revision Information:

None.