Namespace Identifier:

   etsi

Version:

   1

Date:

   2018-10-22

Registrant:

   ETSI Protocol Naming and Numbering Service (PNNS)
   European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI)
   650, Route des Lucioles
   Sophia Antipolis 06560
   France
   Email: pnns&etsi.org

Purpose:

The Namespace Identifier (NID) "etsi" for Uniform Resource Names
(URNs) will be used to identify resources published by ETSI.
These might include published standards or protocols that ETSI
defines and that make use of URNs.  These namespaces are globally
unique.  The URN namespace will be used in public networks by
clients to configure and manage resources in the network.  Servers
will enforce the uniqueness of the namespaces by using the
namespace and the XPath associated with the managed node in the
network when accessing a resource.

Syntax:

   The syntax of Namespace Specific Strings for the "etsi" namespace
   is <NSS> in Uniform Resource Names (URNs) [RFC8141].

The entire URN is case-insensitive.

Assignment:

   ETSI will maintain the list of registered subtrees that use the
   "etsi" NID in the "ETSI URN Namespace" registry at
   <https://portal.etsi.org/PNNS/GenericAllocation/
   ETSIURNNamespace.aspx>.  The registry describes the <NSS>, how
   namespaces will be allocated, and how experimental namespaces can
   be used within the allocated URN.

   ETSI will manage resource classes using the "etsi" NID and will be
   the authority for managing resources and associated subsequent
   strings.  ETSI will guarantee the uniqueness of the strings by
   validating them against the existing content of the registry.
   ETSI may also permit secondary responsibility for certain defined
   resources.  Once a subtree assignment is made, it cannot be
   deleted or reassigned.

   ETSI may allow use of experimental type values in specific
   subtrees for testing purposes only.  Note that using experimental
   types may create collision as multiple users may use the same
   values for different resources and specific strings.  All
   experimentation must follow the guidance set forth in "A Uniform
   Resource Name (URN) Namespace for Examples" [RFC6963].

Security and Privacy:

   See Section 4 of RFC 8515.

Interoperability:

   There are no known interoperability issues at this time.

Resolution:

   It is not foreseen that URNs within this namespace will undergo
   resolution.

Documentation:

   Documentation can be found at
   <https://portal.etsi.org/PNNS/GenericAllocation/
   ETSIURNNamespace.aspx>.