Namespace Identifier:  GVAT

Version:  1.0

Date:  2023-05-01.

Registrant:

Bundeskanzleramt der Republik Österreich
Ballhausplatz 2, 1010 Wien, Austria
smartdata&bka.gv.at

Purpose: 

The GVAT URNs identify all types of digital objects of Austrian 
government institutions and organizations in the possession of the 
Austrian administration. 

The GVAT URNs allow unambiguous identification of digital objects, thus 
improving their findability and reusability. The GVAT URNs also help 
internal systems to better track provenance and object evolution.

The GVAT URN namespace is independent of any existing URN namespaces, 
URI schemes, and non-URN identifier systems. 

The resolution mechanism is anticipated for URNs assigned within the 
GVAT namespace. The Austrian Federal Chancellery will operate an 
internal resolution service. 

The GVAT URN namespace is not expected to become a constituent part of a 
standard being developed in the IETF or some other recognized standards 
body.

Syntax:

The syntax for the GVAT URN namestring is defined using the Augmented 
Backus-Naur Form (ABNF) below.

namestring             = assigned-name 
assigned-name          = "urn:gvat:" NSS
NSS                    = delegation-area-number "/" object
delegation-area-number = 1%x31–39 3%x30–39 1%x31–39
object                 = 1*(%x41–5A / %x61–7A / %x30–39 / %x2D) 

Assignment:

The registration of URNs within the GVAT namespace is limited to 
Austrian government institutions and organizations in the possession of 
the Austrian administration. The Austrian Federal Chancellery decides 
which further institutions or organizations get the right to assign URNs 
within the GVAT namespace, that is, to become delegated authorities. 

Each delegated authority gets its own delegation area number, a unique 
part of the NSS. Thus, there are no collisions among URNs minted by 
different delegated authorities. Each delegated authority is 
individually responsible for the uniqueness of URNs assigned by it and 
for conformance with the syntax of the GVAT URN namespace.

Security and Privacy:

The identifiers do not include any semantics. There is no public 
resolution service. There are no specific security and privacy 
constraints stemming directly from the GVAT URN syntax and assignment 
strategy.

Interoperability: 

No interoperability issues are known at this stage. 

Resolution:

A resolution mechanism is anticipated for URNs assigned within the GVAT 
namespace, but primarily for internal and non-public use.

Documentation:  None

Additional Information:  None

Revision Information:  None