Namespace Registration for International Standard Serial Number 
(ISSN) and Linking ISSN (ISSN-L) based on ISO 3297:2007


Namespace ID:  ISSN Requested of IANA.

Version:  2 (revision of earlier registration, RFC 3044).

Date:  2017-06-22


Registrant:  

Name: Gaëlle Béquet
E-mail: gaelle.bequet&issn.org
Affiliation: Director, The ISSN International Centre
Address: 
ISSN International Centre
45 rue de Turbigo
75003 Paris
France
Web URL: http://www.issn.org 

Requesting entity is a standards development organization revising 
the namespace registration which was based on an earlier version of 
the ISSN standard. 

The formal URN Namespace Identifier Registration for the pre-2007 
version of the International Standard Serial Number (ISSN) standard 
was done in RFC 3044 [RFC3044].

The revised ISSN standard does not require a new namespace, but the 
registration is updated here. The registrant organization has moved 
from a former address to a new one in Paris. Moreover, the 
description of the NSS and resolution details have been amended.


Overview: 

Each ISSN is a unique identifier for a specific serial or other 
continuing resource in a defined medium.

ISSN are applicable to serials and other continuing resources, 
whether past, present, or to be produced in the foreseeable future, 
whatever the medium of production. Continuing resources are issued 
over time with no predetermined conclusion, they include serials and 
ongoing integrating resources. ISSN are assigned to the entire 
population of serials and to ongoing integrating resources.

Serials are resources for which additional information is supplied 
indefinitely in a succession of discrete parts.  All serials are 
eligible for an ISSN.  Also eligible for ISSN assignment are those 
bibliographic resources issued in successive issues or parts that 
bear numbering and that also bear other characteristics of a serial 
(e.g. frequency in the title), but whose duration is limited (e.g. 
the newsletter of an event).

Ongoing integrating resources are resources that are updated over 
time and with no predetermined conclusion, for which the updates are 
integrated into the resources and do not remain discrete. This 
category includes loose-leaf publications, websites and databases. 
Those ongoing integrating resources that are eligible for an ISSN 
must be updated indefinitely, and/or have an update statement. Online 
ongoing integrating resources should meet some inclusion criteria in 
order to be eligible for ISSN assignment, for example an identified 
editorial responsibility and an editorial content (e.g. journalistic 
or scholarly content). Advertising and individual home pages, online 
diaries, personal weblogs, and web sites consisting exclusively of 
links are not eligible for an ISSN.

Individual monographs, technical reports, sound and video recordings, 
printed music publications, audiovisual works and musical works have 
their own identifier systems.  Such items may carry an ISSN in 
addition to their own standard numbers when they are part of a 
continuing resource, such as a monographic series.

Only one ISSN is assigned to a continuing resource in a defined 
medium.  This ISSN is permanently linked to the so called key title, 
a standardized form of title derived from information appearing on 
the continuing resource.  A key title is unique to a particular 
continuing resource.  Titles that would otherwise not be unique are 
made unique by the addition of qualifying elements. In cases where 
the title changes sufficiently (as per specific rules defined in the 
ISSN Manual) to warrant creating a new key title, a new ISSN is 
assigned.  In cases where the medium of the continuing resource 
changes, a new ISSN and a new key title are assigned.

Changes in publisher, country, language, frequency, subject scope or 
any other characteristic of a given continuing resource do not 
warrant the assignment of a new ISSN.  Title changes that are deemed 
minor are registered in the ISSN metadata as "variant titles".

When a new ISSN is assigned to a continuing resource (because of a 
significant title change or of a media change), both the "former" and 
"new" ISSN are deemed valid and identify two distinct entities: each 
of them identifies the continuing resource in its incarnation in a 
given time interval, under a particular key title and/or physical 
medium.  Ceased continuing resources are no longer updated, but they 
continue to be accessible on library shelves or as archives on 
servers and their continuing identification is an obvious need for 
the whole chain of stakeholders.

In such cases, ISSN, through the metadata stored in the ISSN records 
of the ISSN Register are reciprocally linked.  In fact, one of the 
major aspects of the ISSN Register is its linking structure through 
which various incarnations of continuing resources are reciprocally 
linked using the ISSN as pointer.  There are different categories of 
such links (for former and successor titles, other media editions, 
other language editions, supplements etc.). A given ISSN may thus be 
linked directly to a number of other ISSN, which in turn may be 
linked to other ISSN, etc.  We can thus define the concepts of 
directly and indirectly linked ISSN.


Purpose:  

ISSN is an authoritative standard identifier system for continuing 
resources and in particular serial publications.  Therefore, any 
useful and deployable method for identifying these entities for 
network-wide reference and making their metadata available on the 
Internet needs to be based on ISSN.  ISSN are authoritatively 
referenced in a centrally managed database called the "ISSN 
Register", which can be used as the basis for URN:ISSN resolution 
services.

In the framework of URN:ISSN resolution, the ISSN-L is a very 
important feature.

The ISSN-L (or "linking ISSN") is an important modification 
introduced in the 2007 revision of the ISSN standard within ISO 
framework.

The ISSN-L has been defined to meet the need for a collocation, or 
grouping mechanism that brings together the various media versions of 
a continuing resource, and thus facilitate content management.

The ISSN-L is an ISSN designated by the ISSN Network to group the 
different media versions of a continuing resource.

Only one ISSN-L is designated regardless of how many different media 
versions of a continuing resource exist.  A continuing resource will 
be associated with only one ISSN-L.

The administration of the entire ISSN system is carried out at two 
levels: the ISSN International Centre and ISSN National Centres.

The ISSN International Centre is located in Paris (France). The main 
responsibilities of this Centre are:

•   To promote, co-ordinate and supervise the world-wide use of the 
ISSN system.

•   To maintain and publish the ISSN Register.

•   To allocate blocks of ISSN to ISSN National Centres.

•   To assign ISSN to publications by international organisations and 
to serials issued in countries with no National Centre.

Detailed information about ISSN usage can be found in the ISSN Manual 
which is available at:

http://www.issn.org/understanding-the-issn/assignment-rules/issn-manual/


Syntax:  

An ISSN consists of eight digits.  These are the Arabic numerals 0 to 
9, except that an upper case X can sometimes occur in the final 
position as a check digit (when representing the number "10"). Since 
ISSN are likely to be used in the same context as codes designed for 
other purposes, a distinction must be preserved in the form of 
presentation.  An ISSN therefore appears as two groups of four 
digits, separated by a hyphen:

NNNN-NNNC

where N is a Digit character [0..9]
      C is either a Digit character or letter "X" [0..9,X]
      C is the check character

The check digit “X” must be upper-case. 

The hyphen is only used to increase the human readability of ISSN 
strings.

This can be formally expressed as follows:

issn-urn = "urn:ISSN:" 4DIGIT ["-"] 3DIGIT check
check = DIGIT / "X"

Example 1: ISSN 0317-8471
Example 2: ISSN 1050-124X

The check digit is always located in the extreme right (low order) 
position, and is calculated on a modulus 11 basis using weights 8 to 
2.

The ISSN syntax (used literally as the NSS) is as follows:

The URN syntax is urn:<NID>:<NSS>, where <NID> will be ISSN.

The namespace, “ISSN”, is case-insensitive in processing but is 
conventionally written in upper case. 

Q-component semantics is for the time being undefined. 

F-component is not applicable, since ISSN does not identify journal 
issues or volumes, but the entire periodical.  

R-component semantics is for the time being undefined. 


Rules for Lexical Equivalence:

The check digit, if 'X', is case-sensitive. Thus, if "x" is found it 
must be translated to “X”.

The hyphen between the 4th and the 5th digit can be omitted

Q- and R-components, if present, must be omitted


Assignment:

Assignment of ISSN is controlled, and 'ISSN' URNs inherit this 
property.  There are three levels of control: the ISSN International 
Centre, national ISSN Centres, and finally all the stakeholders 
responsible for a correct use of the ISSN system.

Assignment of ISSN-L is carried out either by a centre of the ISSN 
Network or is performed automatically as records are added to the 
ISSN Register. It is done either by those ISSN National Centres that 
are able to undertake this responsibility, or by the International 
Centre. The records produced by these National Centres include the 
ISSN-L in the ISSN records under their responsibility.

The first ISSN assigned, in the ISSN Register, to any media version 
of a continuing resource is designated by default to function also as 
the ISSN-L and applies to all other media versions of that resource 
identified in the ISSN Register.  An ISSN-L is designated for each 
continuing resource identified in the ISSN Register, even if the 
continuing resource is issued in only one medium. Only one ISSN-L is 
designated regardless of how many different media versions of a 
continuing resource exist.


Security and Privacy:

This document proposes means of encoding ISSN within the URN 
framework.  An ISSN-based URN resolution service is depicted here, 
but in a generic level only; thus questions of secure or 
authenticated resolution mechanisms are excluded.  It does not deal 
with means of validating the integrity or authenticating the source 
or provenance of URNs that contain ISSN.  Issues regarding 
intellectual property rights associated with objects identified by 
the ISSN are also beyond the scope of this document.

Access control mechanisms may be implemented to limit access to some 
or all URN resolution services available in the URN Register.  Such 
mechanisms, if any, will be discussed separately.


Interoperability:  

ISSN is a unique and persistent identifier.  An ISSN, once it has 
been assigned, must never be re-used for another serial.  Moreover, 
the same serial must never get a new ISSN.

There are no characters in ISSN which would require percent-encoding. 


Resolution:  

For URN resolution purposes, all elements, including the check digit 
and the central hyphen, must be taken into account.

If a local resource stores and manages ISSN without a central hyphen, 
it SHOULD be programmatically inserted for the constitution of 
URN:ISSN.

Applications, such as the national bibliography or the open archive 
of a university, can use the URN as the persistent address of the 
resource.  There is just one place (the URN registry) where the 
address is mapped to one or more physical locations.

Persistence is one of the key features for any persistent identifier 
system. There are four inter-related aspects of persistence that need 
to be discussed: persistence of the resource itself, persistence of 
the ISSN, persistence of the URN-based resolvers and persistence of 
the ISSN-L.


Persistence of the resources: 

Continuing resources are complex objects that evolve over time.  In 
their paper incarnations, they have been stored on library shelves 
sometimes for centuries. Bibliographic records mediate identification 
and access.  If a continuing resource is available on print only, its 
URN:ISSN will resolve to the bibliographic record in the ISSN 
register.

The ISSN Register has identified (at the beginning of 2017) more than 
200,000 online continuing resources that may or may not have print 
equivalents.  Furthermore, vast digitization efforts are now 
undertaken over the world to create digital archives of printed 
continuing resources (these initiatives have often a dual aim of long 
term preservation and economies in shelving space); efforts are also 
under way to manage the long term preservation of online continuing 
resources.

All these efforts that have as a goal the persistence of the 
continuing resources will be all the more successful if they benefit 
from a standardized identification layer.  This obviously also has an 
impact on the management of contents (volumes, issues, and first and 
foremost articles) where linking frameworks that appeared during the 
last ten years (DOI or Open URL) make heavy use of the ISSN.


Persistence of the identifier: 

The ISSN as an identifier is persistent in the sense that once 
assigned, an ISSN will never be re-assigned to a different continuing 
resource.


Persistence of the resolvers: 

URN resolvers are not static.  The services they'll supply will 
change over time, due to changes in technical infrastructure.  For 
instance, new URN resolution services may be added or modified over 
time.  Persistence of the resolvers themselves is mainly an 
organizational issue, related to the persistence of organizations 
maintaining them.  As URN:ISSN resolution services will be based on 
the ISSN Register, which is itself a persistent resource that has 
been maintained for more than 40 years, we may thus assume that 
URN:ISSN resolution services will be persistent.

The ISSN Register will initially support four resolution services 
specified in RFC 2483 [RFC2483], namely I2L, I2Ls, I2C and I2Cs. Only 
I2C and I2Cs (URI to URC(s); delivery of descriptive metadata related 
to the resource) are valid for non-networked resources. Descriptive 
metadata can only be supplied in the MARC21 format.

Since the ISSN is not semantic, it is assumed that URN:ISSN 
resolution can only be reliably achieved through a central service, 
based on the ISSN Register that in turn can benefit from automated 
linking with other local resources using the ISSN as an identifier. 
Only a combination of the authority of the centralized ISSN Register 
and of local data can guarantee both reliability and persistence.


ISSN-L

In the framework of URN:ISSN resolution, whether an ISSN is submitted 
as an ISSN-L or as an ISSN should be considered as having no 
practical impact as the response should always include by default 
basic resolution data for all ISSN that may be linked through a 
common ISSN-L.

For efficient practical resolution purposes, it should not be assumed 
that the requesting service has an unambiguous knowledge of either:

•   the media version associated to a given ISSN; or

•   the ISSN which is designated to function as the ISSN-L that links 
the different media versions.

The URN:ISSN resolution service should make no such assumption 
concerning the knowledge of the requesting service.  The URN:ISSN 
resolution should make available sufficient authoritative metadata so 
as to allow the requesting service to obtain the expected response, 
even if the ISSN submitted is not used fully adequately by the 
requestor.  URN:ISSN resolution metadata should allow the requesting 
service to check and correct if necessary its potentially incorrect 
assumptions, so as to avoid the following situations:

•   an ISSN would be left unresolved (for instance because a "print" 
ISSN was sent instead of the "online" ISSN and I2L service is 
requested);

•   the requesting service would be left unaware of the existence of 
other ISSN linked through a common linking ISSN-L, because it would 
have submitted for resolution an ISSN not designated as ISSN-L;

•   the requesting service would have to perform several successive 
URN:ISSN resolution requests for all ISSN linked through a common 
ISSN-L.

Examples (fictitious):

URN:ISSN:1234-1231 identifies the current print edition of "Medical 
News".

URN:ISSN:1560-1560 identifies the current online edition of "Medical 
News".

The ISSN-L linking both media versions of "Medical News" happens to 
be ISSN-L 1234-1231 (i.e based on the ISSN 1234-1231, designated as 
such in the framework of the management of the ISSN Register).

The resolution of URN:ISSN:1234-1231 should be equivalent to the 
resolution of URN:ISSN:1560-1560; i.e., in both cases one should find 
a reference to the other media version.


Documentation:  

ISSN  Manual 
http://www.issn.org/understanding-the-issn/assignment-rules/issn-manual/ 


Additional Information:  

See: http://www.issn.org 


Revision Information:  

This registration is based on ISSN standard version ISO 3297:2007. 


References 

Rozenfeld, S, Using the ISSN (International Standard Serial Number) 
as URN (Uniform Resource Name) within an ISSN-URN Namespace”, RFC 
3044, January 2001 

