
Namespace Identifier:  LEI 

Version:  1

Date:  2021-12-22

Registrant:  

  Global Legal Entity Identifier Foundation (GLEIF)
  St. Alban
  Vorstadt 5 
  4002 Basel 
  Switzerland 
  
  Web: www.gleif.org
  Email: info&gleif.org
  
  Contact person: Ivan Marin
  Work Phone: +49 69 9074999-22
  Cell phone: +34 670 246 255
  Email: Ivan.Marin&gleif.org

Purpose:  

  1.  The kinds of resources identified by URNs assigned within the URN
       namespace.

  Legal entities would be identified by URNs by including the Legal 
  Entity Identifier (LEI), a 20-character, alpha-numeric code based on 
  the ISO 17442 standard developed by the International Organization 
  for Standardization (ISO), in the URN. The LEI code connects to key 
  reference information that enables clear and unique identification 
  of legal entities. Each LEI contains information about an entity's 
  ownership structure and thus answers the questions of 'who is who'
  and 'who owns whom'. Simply put, the publicly available LEI data 
  pool can be regarded as a global directory, which greatly enhances 
  transparency in the global marketplace. The Global LEI System is 
  managed by the Global Legal Entity Identifier Foundation (GLEIF).

  LEI codes are restricted to _non-human_ legal entities. Therefore, 
  there are not privacy and interoperability considerations at the very 
  least.

  Further information regarding LEI can be found here:
  https://www.gleif.org/en/about-lei/introducing-the-legal-entity-identifier-lei

  Indeed the LEI system is already well-developed and standardized and 
  all the LEI namespace registration provides is a systematic way of 
  mapping existing LEIs into URNs.

  2.  The scope and applicability of the URNs assigned within the URN
      namespace; this might include information about the community of
      use (e.g., a particular nation, industry, technology, or
      organization), whether the assigned URNs will be used on public
      networks or private networks, etc.

  The Financial Stability Board (FSB) has reiterated that global LEI 
  adoption underpins "multiple financial stability objectives" such as 
  improved risk management in firms as well as better assessment of 
  micro and macro prudential risks. As a result, it promotes market 
  integrity while containing market abuse and financial fraud. Last but 
  not least, LEI rollout "supports higher quality and accuracy of 
  financial data overall". Consequently, the initial usage of the LEI 
  was in regulatory reporting requirement arising from the 2008 global 
  financial crisis.

  However, the scope of legal entity types that are eligible to register 
  for LEIs is much broader and the LEI can be used in any industry or 
  domain.  In cooperation with its partners in the Global LEI System, 
  the GLEIF continues to focus on further optimizing the quality, 
  reliability and usability of LEI data, empowering market participants 
  to benefit from the wealth of information available with the LEI 
  population.

  3.  How the intended community (and the Internet community at large)
      will benefit from using or resolving the assigned URNs.

  GLEIF has received a request from the co-chairs of the W3C Rights 
  Automation Community Group who want to use the LEI to identify parties 
  involved in the use of market data (exchanges, intermediaries, banks, 
  etc.).  The co-chairs specifically have asked if GLEIF would work on 
  developing a URN (RFC 8141) namespace identifier associated with LEIs.

  4.  How the URN namespace relates to and complements existing URN
      namespaces, URI schemes, and non-URN identifier systems.

  An LEI namespace being based on an international standard entity 
  identifier should complement any existing namespace URN/URI and 
  non-URN identifier systems.

  5.  The kinds of software applications that can use or resolve the
      assigned URNs (e.g., by differentiating among disparate URN
      namespaces, identifying resources in a persistent fashion, or
      meaningfully resolving and accessing services associated with the
      URN namespace).

  As stated in point 3 above, GLEIF has received a request from the
  co-chairs of the W3C Rights Automation Community Group who want to use 
  the LEI to identify parties involved in the use of market data
  (exchanges, intermediaries, banks etc.), using machine processing. The 
  co-chairs specifically have asked if GLEIF would work on developing a 
  URN (RFC 8141) namespace identifier associated with LEIs.

  Once a namespace is established for the LEI, this could be used to 
  resolve the LEI to its entity and relationship data for any relevant 
  purpose.

  6.  Whether resolution services are available or will be available
      (and, if so, the nature or identity of the services).  Examples
      of q-component and (when they are standardized) r-component
      semantics and syntax are helpful here, even if detailed
      definitions are provided elsewhere or later.

  It is not applicable. For explanation of resolution see "resolution" 
  section below.

  7.  Whether the URN namespace or its definition is expected to become
      a constituent part of a standard being developed in the IETF or
      some other recognized standards body.

   GLEIF has no plans for the URN namespace or its definition to become 
   part of the ISO 17442 standard itself.

Syntax:  

  1.  A description of the structure of URNs within the URN namespace,
      in conformance with the fundamental URN syntax.  The structure
      might be described in terms of a formal definition (e.g., using
      ABNF [RFC5234]), an algorithm for generating conformant URNs, or
      a regular expression for parsing the name into constituent parts;
      alternatively, the structure might be opaque.

  The suggested format is (it is not case sensitive): 

  URN:LEI:[20-digit LEI code]

  For example:            urn:LEI:7LTWFZYICNSX8D621K86
  That is equivalent to:  urn:lei:7LTWFZYICNSX8D621K86

  The character set for the LEI is alphanumeric and it consists in 
  uppercase letters and alpha characters A-Z and digits numeric 
  characters 0-9.

  2.  Any special character encoding rules for assigned URNs (e.g.,
      which character ought to always be used for quotes).

  There are no special characters in the format (assuming that a colon 
  is not considered a special character) and the format of the LEI is 
  alphanumeric with no special characters.  

  3.  Rules for determining URN-equivalence between two names in the
      URN namespace.  Such rules ought to always have the effect of
      eliminating false negatives that might otherwise result from
      comparison.  If it is appropriate and helpful, reference can be
      made to particular equivalence rules defined in the URI
      specification [RFC3986] or to Section 3 of this document.
      Examples of URN-equivalence rules include equivalence between
      uppercase and lowercase characters in the NSS, between hyphenated
      and non-hyphenated groupings in the name, or between single
      quotes and double quotes.  There may also be namespace-specific
      special encoding considerations, especially for URNs that contain
      embedded forms of names from non-URN identifier systems.  (Note
      that these are not normative statements for any kind of best
      practice related to handling of relationships between characters
      in general; such statements are limited to one particular URN
      namespace only.)

  There will be no names in the URN, only unique, unequivocal 20 
  character LEI codes.  The LEI codes are permanent and never reused.
  Therefore, equivalence is determined by lexical identity.

  4.  Any special considerations necessary for conforming with the URN
      syntax.  This is particularly applicable in the case of existing,
      non-URN identifier systems that are used in the context of URNs.
      For example, if a non-URN identifier system is used in contexts
      other than URNs, it might make use of characters that are
      reserved in the URN syntax.  This section ought to note any such
      characters and outline necessary mappings to conform to URN
      syntax.  Normally, this will be handled by percent-encoding the
      character as specified in Section 2.1 of the URI specification
      [RFC3986] and as discussed in Section 1.2.2 of this
      specification.

  There is no need for special considerations. 

  5.  Any special considerations for the meaning of q-components (e.g.,
      keywords) or f-components (e.g., predefined terms) in the context
      of this URN namespace.

  There is no need for special considerations. 

Assignment:  

  1.  Mechanisms or authorities for assigning URNs to resources.  It
      ought to make clear whether assignment is completely open (e.g.,
      following a particular procedure such as first-come, first-served
      (FCFS)), completely closed (e.g., for a private organization), or
      limited in various ways (e.g., delegated to authorities
      recognized by a particular organization); if limited, it ought to
      explain how to become an assigner of names or how to request
      assignment of names from existing assignment authorities.

  GLEIF would plan to publish the structure of the LEI URN. Since the 
  structure of an LEI URN would be straightforward, we do not see the 
  need for a registry of URNs for LEIs.  It is a prerequisite that a 
  valid LEI exists before creating a LEI URN. 

  The process for issuing a LEI is described here:

  https://www.gleif.org/en/about-lei/get-an-lei-find-lei-issuing-organizations

  2.  Methods for ensuring that URNs within the URN namespace are
      unique.  For example, names might be assigned sequentially or in
      accordance with some well-defined process by a single authority,
      assignment might be partitioned among delegated authorities that
      are individually responsible for respecting uniqueness rules, or
      URNs might be created independently following an algorithm that
      itself guarantees uniqueness.

  LEIs themselves are unique with 'A single, unique identifier is 
  assigned to each legal entity.'.  So URNs containing unique LEIs also 
  would be unique.  Further, steps are taken to ensure uniqueness of 
  LEIs even within a distributed network of LEI assignment as 
  'Characters 1-4: Prefix used to ensure the uniqueness among codes 
  from LEI issuers (Local Operating Units or LOUs).

Security and Privacy:  

  The "Security and Privacy" section of the template describes any
   potential issues related to security and privacy with regard to
  assignment, use, and resolution of names within the URN namespace.
  Examples of such issues include:

  o  The consequences of producing false negatives and false positives
     during comparison for URN-equivalence (see Section 3.1 of this
     specification and "Issues in Identifier Comparison for Security
     Purposes" [RFC6943]).

  This does not apply as URN-equivalence is not applicable.

   o  Leakage of private information when names are communicated on the
      public Internet.

  There will be no leakage of private information as the LEI code and 
  all its reference data are published in the GLEIS is public information.

  * The potential for directory harvesting.

  This does not apply because is all data published in the LEI is public 
  data.

   o  Various issues discussed in the guidelines for security
      considerations in RFCs [RFC3552] and the privacy considerations
      for Internet protocols [RFC6973].  In particular, note the privacy
      considerations text for the Global System for Mobile
      Communications Association (GSMA) / International Mobile station
      Equipment Identity (IMEI) namespace [RFC7254], which may provide a
      useful model for such cases.

  This does not apply. 

Interoperability:  

  The "Interoperability" section MUST specify any known potential
  issues related to interoperability.  Examples include possible
  confusion with other URN namespaces, non-URN identifier systems, or
  URI schemes because of syntax (e.g., percent-encoding of certain
  characters) or scope (e.g., overlapping areas of interest).  If at
  all possible, concerns that arise during the registration of a URN
  namespace (e.g., due to the syntax or scope of a non-URN identifier
  system) should be resolved as part of or in parallel to the
  registration process.

  GLEIF does not think there will be any issues related to interoperability.

Resolution:  

  The "Resolution" section MUST specify whether resolution mechanisms
  are intended or anticipated for URNs assigned within the URN
  namespace.

  If resolution is intended, then this section SHOULD specify whether
  the organization that assigns URNs within the URN namespace intends
  to operate or recommend any resolution services for URNs within that
  URN namespace.  In addition, if the assigning organization intends to
  implement registration for publicly advertised resolution services
  (for example, using a system developed in the spirit of the original
  architectural principles and service descriptions for URN resolution
  [RFC2276] [RFC2483]), then this section SHOULD list or reference the
  requirements for being publicly advertised by the assigning
  organization.  In addition, this section SHOULD describe any special
  considerations for the handling of r-components in the context of
  this URN namespace.

123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012
  The GLEIF API can be used to resolve LEI URNS by extracting the LEI 
  Code from the URN and providing it as a parameter to the GLEIF API. 
  The API gives users of LEIs access to the full LEI Data search engine 
  functionality, including filters, full-text and single-field searches 
  of legal entity and ownership data, and "fuzzy" matching of relevant 
  data fields such as names and addresses. In addition to LEI reference 
  data, the GLEIF API also makes available further related data, e. g. 
  reference data of LEI issuers, code lists used in LEI records and 
  mapped identifiers like BIC or ISIN codes.  For example, using the 
  GLEIF API, users can search for LEIs via entity names, find LEIs by 
  BIC code or investigate corporate structures (search for parent and 
  child relationships). 

  Full documentation on the GLEIF API, as well as a demo application, 
  are available with the below links.

  https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/7679680/SVYrrxuU?version=latest
  
  https://api.gleif.org/demo#/query-by-attribute

  GLEIF API is web based.

  An example to request the reference data for LEI 7LTWFZYICNSX8D621K86 
  looks like this:

  https://api.gleif.org/api/v1/lei-records?filter[lei]=7LTWFZYICNSX8D621K86

Documentation:  

  A pointer to an RFC, a specification published by another standards 
  development organization, or another stable document that provides 
  further information about this URN namespace.

  The contents of the URN, the LEI, is a standard developed and 
  published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).  
  The 17442 standard defines a set of attributes or legal entity 
  reference data that are the most essential elements of identification. 
  The Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) code itself is neutral, with no 
  embedded intelligence regarding the identity of the legal entity 
  itself that could create unnecessary complexity for users.

  https://www.iso.org/standard/78829.html

  Key provisions of the ISO 17442 standard are:

  - enables unique identification globally of entities requiring a legal 
    entity identifier (LEI);
  - defines a LEI code that contains no embedded intelligence about the 
    legal entity itself;
  - defines a LEI code that is interoperable with other standards and 
    existing reference data and can be applied globally:
  - leverages the expertise of ISO/TC 68 in defining and maintaining 
    identifier standards;
  - defines a LEI scheme that is reliable and a LEI code that is 
    persistent;
  - defines a LEI scheme that is extensible and free from limitation on 
    use and redistribution.

Additional Information:  

  The "Additional Information" section includes information that would
  be useful to those trying to understand this registration or its
  relationship to other registrations, such as comparisons to existing
  URN namespaces that might seem to overlap.

  This section of the template is optional.

  Not applicable

Revision Information:  

  Description of changes from prior version(s). (Applicable only when 
  earlier registrations have been revised.)

  Not applicable

