Namespace Registration for Sources of Law (LEX)

Namespace Identifier:

   lex

Version:

   1.0

Date:

   2022-11-15

Registrant:

   National Research Council of Italy (CNR)
   Via de' Barucci, 20
   50127 Florence
   Italy
   e-mail: lex&ittig.cnr.it
   phone: +39 055 43995

   contact: Enrico Francesconi
   e-mail: enrico.francesconi&cnr.it

Purpose:

   The purpose of the "lex" namespace is to assign an unequivocal
   identifier, in well-defined format, to documents that are
   sources of law.

   This specification of an unequivocal identifier for legal
   documents follows a number of initiatives in the field of legal
   document management. Those initiatives were aimed at
   introducing standards for sources of law identification and
   mark-up using URI and XML techniques, respectively (for more
   details see Section 1.3 of draft-spinosa-urn-lex).  The LEX 
   identifier is conceived to be general enough, so as to provide 
   guidance at the core of the specification and sufficient 
   flexibility to cover a wide variety of needs for identifying 
   all the legal documents of different nature, namely legislative, 
   case-law and administrative acts. Moreover, it can be effectively 
   used within a federative environment where different publishers
   (public and private) can provide their own items of an act (that 
   is there is more than one manifestation of the same act).

   The LEX identifier is conceived to be: globally unique,
   transparent, reversible, persistent, location-independent, and
   language-neutral. It is organized into parts. The first part
   uses a predetermined standard to specify the country (or more
   generally the jurisdiction) of origin for the legal document
   being identified; the remainder is intended for local use in
   identifying documents issued in that country or jurisdiction.
   This second part depends only on the system of sources of law
   identification operating in that nation and it is mainly
   composed by formalized information related to the enacting
   authority, the type of measure, the details and possibly the
   annex. For more details on the nature of the LEX
   characteristics and the general internal organization, see
   Section 1.4 of draft-spinosa-urn-lex.

   The LEX name is linked to the document through specific meta-
   information, internally (with a tag) or externally (with an
   attribute); for details on this see Section 1.5 of 
   draft-spinosa-urn-lex.

   LEX names can be used in references either in (X)HTML document
   or, more generally, in XML document format (compliant with the
   DTD/XMLSchema defined in the related country); see Section 1.6
   of draft-spinosa-urn-lex for more information.

Syntax:

   The identifier has a hierarchical structure as follows:

                           "urn:lex:" NSS

   where <NSS> is the Namespace Specific String composed as
   follows:

                  NSS = jurisdiction ":" local-name

   where:

   <jurisdiction> is the part providing the identification of the
   jurisdiction, identifying the scope (state, regional,
   municipal, supranational or of an organization) where a set of
   sources of law have validity. It is also possible to represent
   international organizations (either states or public
   administrations or private entities).

   <local-name> is the uniform name of the source of law in the
   country or jurisdiction where it is issued; its internal
   structure is common to the already adopted schemas. It is able
   to represent all the aspects of an intellectual production, as
   it is a legal document, from its initial idea, through its
   evolution during the time, to its realisation by different
   means (paper, digital, etc.).

   LEX specifications give information on the internal structure
   of both <jurisdiction> and <local-name>, including
   specifications about case sensitivity, the use of national
   characters and diacritics, as well as spaces, connectives,
   punctuation marks, abbreviations, acronyms, date formats and
   ordinal numbers. For more details on the internal structure and
   syntax of the LEX identifier, see Sections 3, 4 and 5 of
   draft-spinosa-urn-lex.

   The use of r- and q- components, introduced by RFC 8141, with
   LEX URNs is not defined in this document. However a LEX URN
   resolution system can be developed to deal with such components
   according to the semantics specified in RFC 8141.

Assignment:

   The Jurisdictional Registrar (or those it delegates) of each
   adhering country or organization is responsible for the
   definition or acceptance of the uniform name's primary elements
   (issuing authority and type of legal measure).

   Any country or jurisdiction, aiming to adopt this schema,
   identifies a Jurisdictional Registrar, an organization which
   shares and defines the structure of the optional part of the
   name, according to the organization of the state or
   institution. The process of assigning the <local-name> will be
   managed by each specific country or jurisdiction under the
   related <jurisdiction> element (details on this can be found in
   Section 7.2 of draft-spinosa-urn-lex).

   Identifiers in the "lex" namespace are defined through a
   <jurisdiction> field assigned to the sources of law of a
   specific country or organization, and a <local-name> assigned
   by the issuing authority. The goal of the LEX schema is to
   maintain uniqueness and persistence of all resources identified
   by the assigned URNs. The values of the elements for the LEX
   identifier within a jurisdiction are defined by the
   Jurisdictional Registrar. This ensures that the constructed
   URNs are unique (see Section 7.3 of draft-spinosa-urn-lex for 
   details on uniqueness).

   The persistence of identifiers depends on the durability of the
   institutions that assign and administer them (see Section 7.3
   of draft-spinosa-urn-lex for details on persistence).

Security and Privacy:

   This document introduces no additional security considerations
   beyond those associated with the use and resolution of URNs in
   general.

Interoperability:

   As an openly specified naming convention to identify sources of
   law at international level, LEX is meant to guarantee
   interoperability among legal information systems across
   national boundaries.

   The characteristics of the LEX naming convention facilitate
   legal document management as well as providing a mechanism of
   stable cross-collections and cross-country references, thus
   allowing the distribution of the legal information towards a
   federated architecture.

Resolution:

   The resolution service associates a LEX identifier with a
   specific document address on the internet. The architecture of
   the resolution service will be organized in two fundamental
   components: a chain of information in DNS (Domain Name System)
   and a series of resolution services from URNs to URLs, each
   competent within a specific domain of the namespace (see
   Section 8.1 of draft-spinosa-urn-lex for more details).

   To cope with possible incomplete or inaccurate uniform names,
   the implementation of a catalogue, based on a relational
   database, able to associate a URN to related URLs, is
   suggested, as it will lead to a higher flexibility in the
   resolution process. A resolver can provide names normalization,
   completion of inaccurate or incomplete names, and finally their
   resolution in network locations (see Sections 8.2 and 8.3 of 
   draft-spinosa-urn-lex for characteristics and behaviour of a 
   catalogue for resolution).

Documentation:

   Further information can be found in draft-spinosa-urn-lex at:

   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-spinosa-urn-lex/

Additional Information:

   E. Francesconi, "Technologies for European Integration.  
   Standards-based Interoperability of Legal Information Systems", 
   ISBN 978-88-8398-050-3, European Press Academic Publishing, 2007.

   P.L. Spinosa, "The Assignment of Uniform Names to Italian Legal 
   Documents", URN-NIR 1.4, June, 2010, ITTIG Technical Report 
   n. 8/2010.

Revision Information:

   None
