Namespace ID:

   "mrn" Requested of IANA

Version:

   1

Date:

   2017-08-24

Registrant:
  
   Name: Kasper Nielsen 
   E-mail: kasperni&gmail.com
 
   On behalf of

   International Association of Marine Aids to Navigation and
   Lighthouse Authorities (IALA)

   10 rue des Gaudines
   78100
   St Germain en Laye
   France
   Email: contact&iala-aism.org

   The International Association of Marine Aids to Navigation and
   Lighthouse Authorities (IALA) is a non-profit, international
   technical association in the field of marine aids to navigation.
   Founded in 1957, IALA gathers together authorities, manufacturers,
   consultants, and scientific and training institutes from all over 
   the world, offering them the opportunity to exchange and compare 
   their experiences and achievements.

   The requesting entity is an international recognized standards 
   development organization. And is applying for the namespace 
   registration as such.

Purpose:

   Many standardized identification schemes exist for vessels, buoys,
   mariners and other maritime resources already, but there is no 
   single system that allows people to specify such an identifier in 
   a uniform and unambiguous way.  We believe that it makes sense to 
   introduce a naming scheme that can uniquely identify any maritime 
   resource on a global scale.
 
   A "maritime resource" can be anything that has an identity, 
   including organizations, employees, people, physical objects, 
   virtual objects (such as electronic documents), buoys, ships, 
   mariners, nautical charts and electronic services (e.g., "today's 
   weather report for the Oresund Strait").  Of course, not all 
   resources are "retrievable" in an electronic sense; human beings, 
   corporations, and buoys would be obvious examples.  However, all 
   of these can still be considered resources.

   Having a uniform naming scheme will pave the way for new maritime
   digital information services, facilitating innovation, integration,
   trade, safety, and security in the maritime sector.  

Syntax:

   The basic syntax for a MRN is defined using the Augmented 
   Backus-Naur Form (ABNF) as specified in [RFC5234]:

      <MRN>   ::= "urn" ":" "mrn" ":" <OID> ":" <OSS>
                  [ rq-components ]
                  [ "#" f-component ]
                  
      <OID>   ::= (alphanum) 0*20(alphanum / "-") (alphanum) ; 
                  Organization ID

      <OSS>   ::= <OSNID> ":" <OSNS> ; Organization-specific string
                
      <OSNID> ::= (alphanum) 0*32(alphanum / "-") (alphanum) 
                  ; Organization-specific namespace ID

      <OSNS>  ::= pchar *(pchar / "/") ; Organization-specific 
                  namespace string
      
   Rules not defined here:
       
      alphanum and pchar as defined in [RFC3986].
       
      rq-components and f-component as defined in [RFC8141].
       
   The namespace, “mrn”, OID, and OSNID tokens are conventionally 
   written in lower case. 

   Q-component, F-component and R-component are not generally defined 
   by this specification. Organization specific namespace strings 
   might choose to make use of them where applicable.

   If adopting existing non-URN based identifier systems that 
   includes characters not allowed by the URN syntax as specified in 
   [RFC8141]. The representation of these characters should be 
   handled by percent-encoding the character as specified in Section 
   2.1 of the URI specification [RFC3986].

Rules for Lexical Equivalence:

   In addition to the URN equivalance rules defined in Section 2.1 of 
   the URN specification [RFC8141]. Case normalization must be 
   applied to both the OID and OSNID part before determining lexical 
   equivalence.

   Rules for equality comparisons of the OSNS part must be clearly 
   documented by the governing organization, and be consistent with 
   sections 3.1 and 6.4.2 of [RFC8141].

Examples:

   All the examples provided in this section are hypothetical.
   Real world naming schemes will most likely look different.

   Using the MRN identifier scheme, a vessel with an IMO number of
   9743368 could be identified as follows:

   >  urn:mrn:imo:imo-number:9743368

   The governing organization that assigns IMO numbers is the
   International Maritime Organization (IMO).  IMO may delegate the
   actual assignment of numbers to another organization, but it is 
   still the organization that determines that an IMO number is 
   unique.
   
   Within the context of maritime resource names, the organization ID
   (OID) refers to the organization that governs the syntax and rules 
   of a particular resource type.  In the example above, the 
   organization ID is "imo".

   Each organization further divides the organization-specific string
   (OSS), which is the part following "imo", into two parts.

   The first part is an organization-specific namespace ID (OSNID),
   which is a unique identifier within the governing organization for 
   a particular type of resource.  In this example, we have used "imo-
   number," but this could just as well have been "imonumber" or even 
   simply "number".

   The second part is the organization-specific namespace string 
   (OSNS). This is the only part that differs for resources of the 
   same type; in this case it is "9743368".  The 
   organization-specific namespace string is, as the name implies, 
   specific to a particular combination of OID and OSNID.  In this 
   case, the organization-specific namespace string is always a 
   7-digit IMO number.

   Another way to identify the same vessel might be to use its MMSI
   number.  Here the identifier could look like this:

   > urn:mrn:itu:mmsi:538070999

   In this case ITU is the governing body because MMSI numbers are 
   based on ITU recommendation M.585. It is possible that national
   bodies might do the actual assignment of MMSI numbers, but ITU is 
   the governing body for the standardization of MMSI numbers.

   These two examples show how multiple identities can identify the 
   same entity; in this case, the same vessel can be identified by 
   either an IMO number or MMSI number.  This is similar to how an 
   individual might be identified either by a driver license number 
   or a social security ID.  Note that some parameters that are 
   frequently used for identification, such as human names, do not 
   generally qualify as identifiers because they are not guaranteed 
   to be unique.  A single identifier must refer to one and only one 
   entity.

   URNs range from very coarse-grained to very fine-grained.
   For example, a container ship might be identified by one of the two
   previous URNs.  The containers aboard the ship might be identified
   with an URN adapting the ISO 6346 identifier scheme for container
   ids.

   > urn:mrn:bic:container-id:csqu3054383

   Finally, individual items in a single container might be identified
   by another URN scheme.  It might even be possible to integrate with
   URNs defined outside of the urn:mrn namespace.  For example, all
   items in a container might be identified by an electronic product
   code ([RFC5134]).  In other words, the use of URNs as identifiers 
   is not limited to those defined within this document.  In the 
   future, other non-maritime sectors might even adopt similar naming 
   schemes based on URNs to facilitate easier integration across 
   sector boundaries.

   As mentioned earlier, an identifier does not need to be a physical
   object; it can be a virtual item such as an electronic document.  
   For example, IMO might decide that all of their documents should 
   use a "publications" prefix.  The publication "IMO SOLAS 
   Consolidated Spanish Edition, 2014 IF110S" might be referred to as:
    
   > urn:mrn:imo:publications:if110s
    
   On the other hand, an organization such as IALA might decide that
   their publications should follow another format where the category 
   of the publication is included in the identifier.  For example, a
   recommendation could be:
   
   > urn:mrn:iala:publications:recommendation:e-nav-140 

   The identifier of a guideline might be written as:

   > urn:mrn:iala:publications:guideline:synchronisation-of-lights-1069

   As can be seen from the previous example, the organization-specific
   namespace string can be split into multiple hierarchies.  The
   governing organization can decide how it wants to structure its
   identifiers.

   Another example of identifiers with multiple hierarchies could be
   seen in an identifier scheme for lights and buoys.  Here IALA could
   choose to let the OSNS consist of 
   <CountryCode>:<National Identifier>. For example:
   
   > urn:mrn:iala:aton:us:1234x5

   There are no requirements that organizations be permanent entities.
   For example, the European STM Validation Project could choose to 
   use "stm" as its organization ID.  A voyage ID in this project 
   might look like this:
   
   > urn:mrn:stm:voyage:id:xcus231230 
   
   Within the project, the group may use "xcus231230" to refer to a
   voyage plan.  However, the full URN can be used when working with
   external systems or other projects, in case another type of
   identifier is also used for a particular voyage.

   As can be seen from all of these examples, the scheme is highly
   adaptable.  Each organization can choose its own layout for a
   specific type of identifier.  It is easy to fit existing 
   identifiers into the naming scheme, and it provides good context 
   information about the type of the identifier, unlike something 
   simple such as a random UUID.
  
   It is important to note that even though IALA is the maintainer of 
   the MRN URN namespace it cannot define MRNs outside of the 
   "urn:mrn:iala" namespace. All of the above examples that are not 
   in the "urn:mrn:iala" namespace, requires that the relevant 
   organization explicitly requests an Organization ID with IALA.

Assignment:
  
   Assignment of Organization IDs is done by filling out and sending 
   in the registration template, as detailed on 
   http://www.mrnregistry.org. IALA will ensure the uniqueness of 
   Organization IDs by ensuring that an ID can only be assigned once. 
   Records of all successful registrations will be maintained in 
   a public version control repository as detailed on the website. 
   
   The assignment procedures for MRN strings under a particular 
   Organization-specific namespace ID are the responsibility of the 
   maintaining organization. The considerations provided by 
   http://www.mrnregistry.org as well as Section 6.4.3 of the URN 
   specification [RFC8141] must be taken into account when defining 
   the actual assignment procedure.
   
Security and Privacy:

   Around 90% of world trade is carried by the international shipping 
   industry and security incidents can result in major disruption to 
   world trade or life threatening situations for crew or passengers. 
   Since individual organizations manage their own organizational 
   namespace, security and privacy must be evaluated on a case by 
   case basis.

Interoperability:
   
   Interoperability with existing standards for identifying maritime 
   resources is one of the main drivers for this proposal. Since 
   individual organizations manage their own organizational 
   namespace, interoperability must be evaluated on a case by case 
   basis.

Resolution:

   No general available resolution mechanisms are anticipated at the 
   moment. However, organizations might choose to make use of 
   specific resolution mechanisms on a case by case basis.

Documentation:

   For further documentation see http://www.mrnregistry.org