Namespace Registration for National Archive Number (NAN)

Namespace ID:  NAN Requested of IANA.

Version:  1

Date:  2023-08-01

Registrant: 

The National Archives of Finland
Contact person: Lauri Leinonen
E-mail: urn.nan&kansallisarkisto.fi
Kansallisarkisto, Rauhankatu 17, P.O.Box 258, 00171 Helsinki
Web URL: https://kansallisarkisto.fi/

Purpose:  

National Archive Number is a generic name for any identifier system 
used by national archives and their partner organizations to identify 
archival collections and resources.

In the past, there was no need to develop an international standard 
identifier for archival resources. Resources in archival collections 
are usually unique and therefore archive-specific identifier systems 
have been sufficient. Many national archives have developed their own 
identifier systems, but such identifiers are unique only locally.  

However, the digitization or archival resources and long term 
preservation of such digital surrogates has created a need for 
developing a globally unique, persistent and actionable identifier 
system for the national archives and their partner organizations. With 
URN:NAN, existing local identifier systems meet this requirement. 

NAN assignment:

National Archive Number (NAN) is a generic term referring to a group of 
identifier systems administered by national archives and institutions 
authorized by them. The NAN assignment is typically performed by the 
organization hosting the resource.

Assignment of NAN-based URNs is controlled on a national level by the 
national archive (or national archives, if there is more than one). 
National guidelines can differ, but the identified resources themselves 
are usually persistent.

NAN assignment policies may differ. Manual assignment by the archive 
personnel provides the tightest control. In many (national) archives, 
NANs are also generated programmatically as a part of e.g. digitization 
processes. Usage rules can vary within one country, between URN:NAN 
sub-namespaces.

Each national archive uses NANs independently of other national 
archives; apart from this registration, there are no guidelines that 
specify or control NAN usage. As such, NANs are unique only on the 
national level. When used as URNs, base NAN strings MUST be augmented 
with a controlled prefix, which is the particular nation's ISO 3166-1 
alpha-2 two-letter country code (referred to as "ISO country code" 
below).  These prefixes help to guarantee uniqueness of the URN:NANs 
at the global scale.

National archives using URN:NANs usually specify local assignment 
policies for themselves. Such policy can limit the URN:NAN usage to, 
e.g., the born digital or digitized resources stored in the national 
archive's fonds.  Although this specification does not specify 
principles for URN:NAN assignment policies that can be applied, NANs 
assigned to resources which are not archived permanently should not be 
made URN:NANs unless such policy can be justified.

NANs as such are locally but not globally unique; two national archives 
can assign the same NAN to different resources. A prefix, based on the 
ISO country code as described above, help to guarantee the global 
uniqueness of URN:NANs. Once an NAN has been assigned to a resource, it 
MUST be persistent, and therefore URN:NANs are persistent as well.

A URN:NAN, once it has been generated from a NAN, MUST NOT be reused for 
another resource.

Users of the URN:NAN namespace MUST ensure that they do not assign the 
same URN:NAN twice. Different policies can be applied to guarantee this.  
For instance, NANs and corresponding URN:NANs can be assigned 
sequentially by programs in order to avoid human mistakes. It is also 
possible to use printable representations of checksums such as SHA-1 
[RFC6234] as NANs.

Syntax:  

URN:NAN syntax is similar to the URN:NBN syntax. The Namespace-Specific 
String (NSS) consists of three parts:

- a prefix consisting of an ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country code and optional 
  sub-namespace code(s) separated by a colon(s);

- a hyphen (-) as the delimiting character; and,

- a NAN string assigned by the national archive or sub-delegated
      authority.

The following formal definition uses ABNF [RFC5234].

    nan-nss     = prefix "-" nan-string

    prefix      = iso-cc *( ":" subspc )
                ; The entire prefix is case insensitive.

    iso-cc      = 2ALPHA
                ; Alpha-2 country code as assigned by part 1 of ISO 3166
                ; (identifies the national archive to which the branch
                ; is delegated).

    subspc      = 1*(ALPHA / DIGIT)
                ; As assigned by the respective national archive.

    nan-string  = path-rootless
                ; The "path-rootless" rule is defined in RFC 3986.
                ; Syntax requirements specified in RFC 8141 MUST be
                ; taken into account.

A colon MUST be used within the prefix only as a delimiting character 
between the ISO 3166-1 country code and sub-namespace code(s), which 
splits the national namespace into smaller parts.

The structure (if any) of the NAN_string is determined by the authority 
for the prefix. Whereas the prefix is regarded as case insensitive, NAN 
strings can be case sensitive at the preference of the assigning 
authority; parsers therefore MUST treat these as case sensitive, and 
any case mapping needed to introduce case insensitivity is the 
responsibility of the relevant resolution system.

A hyphen MUST be used as the delimiting character between the prefix 
and the NAN string.  Within the NAN string, a hyphen MAY be used for 
separating different sections of the identifier from one another.

All two-letter codes are reserved by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency 
for either existing or possible future ISO country codes (or for private 
use).

Sub-namespace identifiers MUST be registered on the national level by 
the national archive that assigned the identifier.  The list of such 
identifiers can be made publicly available via the Web.

Encoding considerations and lexical equivalence:

Expressing NANs as URNs is usually straightforward, as normally only 
ASCII characters are used in NAN strings. If this is not the case, 
non-ASCII characters in NANs MUST be translated into canonical form as 
specified in RFC 8141. If a national archive uses NANs that can contain 
percent-encoded characters higher than U+007F, the archive needs to 
carefully define the canonical transformation from these NANs into 
URNs, including normalization forms.

When an NAN is used as a URN, the NSS MUST consist of three parts:

- a prefix, structured as a primary prefix, which is a two-letter ISO
  3166-1 country code of the national archive's country, and zero or 
  more secondary prefixes that are each indicated by a delimiting colon 
  character (:) and a sub-namespace identifier;

- a hyphen (-) as a delimiting character; and,

- the NAN string.

Different delimiting characters are not semantically equivalent.

The syntax and roles of the three parts listed above are described in 
the previous paragraph. 

If there are several national archives in one country or if the national 
archive consists of several independent units, these archives MUST agree 
on how to divide the national namespace between themselves using this 
method before the URN:NAN assignment begins in any of these archives.

A national archive MAY also assign URN:NAN sub-namespaces to other 
organizations with archival fonds such as government institutions.  
The sub-namespace MAY be further divided by the partner organization. 
All sub-namespace identifiers used within a country-code-based namespace 
MUST be registered on the national level by the national archive that 
assigned the code.  The national register of these codes SHOULD be made 
available online.

Being part of the prefix, sub-namespace identifier strings are 
case-insensitive. They MUST NOT contain any colons or hyphens.

Formally, two URN:NANs are lexically equivalent if they are 
octet-by-octet equal after the following (conceptional) preprocessing:

   1.  convert all characters in the leading "urn:nan:" token to a
       single case;

   2.  convert all characters in the prefix (country code and its
       optional sub-divisions) to a single case; and,

   3.  convert all characters embedded in any percent-encodings to a
       single case.

Models (indicated line break inserted for readability):

      URN:NAN:<ISO 3166 alpha-2 country code>-<assigned NAN string>

      URN:NAN:<ISO 3166 alpha-2 country code>:<sub-namespace code>-\
      <assigned NAN string>

   Example:

      URN:NAN:fi:ka:a-1510439051

Security and Privacy:

This document defines means of encoding NANs as URNs.  A URN resolution 
service for NAN-based URNs is technically possible but not described 
herein; thus, questions of secure or authenticated resolution mechanisms 
and authentication of users are out of scope of this document.

Although no validation mechanisms are specified on the global level 
(beyond a routine check of those characters that require special 
encoding when employed in URIs), NANs assigned by any given authority 
can have a well-specified and rich syntax (including, e.g., fixed 
length and checksum). In such cases, it is possible to validate the 
correctness of NANs programmatically.

Issues regarding intellectual property rights or confidentiality 
associated with objects identified by the URN:NANs are beyond the 
scope of this document, as are questions about rights to the databases 
that might be used to construct resolution services.

No specific security threats have been identified for URN:NANs.

Interoperability:  

There is no international standard identifier system URN:NANs would 
replace. URN:NAN is compliant with existing local identifier systems, 
and will assist the national archives and their partners in making 
these systems actionable and globally unique. 

Some overlap with other URN namespaces is possible, depending on the 
archived resources.

NANs may contain characters which must be percent-encoded when 
presented as URN:NANs.

Resolution:  

Depending on the local policy and the nature of the identified resource, 
URN:NANs may or may not be actionable. 

No centralized resolution service for URN:NANs will be established. The
country-code-based prefix part of the URN:NAN namespace-specific string 
will provide a hint needed to find the correct resolution service for a 
URN:NAN. 

Additional Documentation:  

None

Revision Information:  

None. 

References:

None.