URN Specification for the oneM2M Namespace Identifier (NID)

    Namespace Identifier:

      onem2m

    Version:

      1

    Date:

      2022-11-14
	  
    Registrant:

      Name:

         oneM2M Partnership Project

      Address:

         ETSI
         650, route des Lucioles
         06921 Sophia-Antipolis Cedex
         France

      Designated contact

         Role: oneM2M Secretariat
         Email: onem2m_contact&list.onem2m.org

    Purpose:

      The Namespace Identifier (NID) 'onem2m' for Uniform Resource Names
      (URNs) will be used to identify resources published by the oneM2M 
      Partnership Project. These might include published standards or 
      protocols that it defines and which make use of URNs. These
      namespaces are globally unique. The URN namespace will be used in 
      public networks by clients to configure and manage resources in the
      network. It is the servers that will enforce the uniqueness of the
      namespaces by using the namespace and the XPath associated with the
      managed node in the network, when accessing a resource.

    Syntax:

      The syntax of namespace specific strings for the 'onem2m' namespace
      is <NSS> in Uniform Resource Names (URNs) [RFC8141].

    The entire URN is case-insensitive.

    Assignment:

      oneM2M will maintain the list of registered subtrees that use the
      'onem2m' NID at 
      https://wiki.onem2m.org/index.php?title=OneM2M_URN_Namespace, in
      the oneM2M URN Namespace registry.
      It will describe the <NSS>, how the namespaces will be allocated,
      and how experimental namespaces can be used within the allocated
      URN.

      oneM2M will manage resource classes using the 'onem2m' NID and will
      be the authority for managing resources and associated subsequent
      strings. oneM2M will guarantee the uniqueness of the strings
      themselves, by validating it against the existing content of the
      registry. It may also permit secondary responsibility for certain
      defined resources. Once a subtree assignment is made, it cannot
      be deleted or reassigned.

      oneM2M may allow for use of experimental type values in specific
      subtrees, for testing purposes only.  Note that using experimental
      types may create collision as multiple users may use the same
      values for different resources and specific strings.  All
      experimentation must follow the guidance set forth in A Uniform
      Resource Name (URN) Namespace for Examples [RFC6963].

    Interoperability:

      There are no known interoperability issues at this time.

    Security and Privacy:

      There are no additional security considerations that are normally
      associated with the use and resolution of URNs in general, which are
      described in Function Requirements for URN [RFC1737], Uniform
      Resource Names (URNs) [RFC8141].

    Resolution:

      It is not foreseen that URNs within this namespace will undergo
      resolution.

    Documentation:

      Documentation can be found at
      https://wiki.onem2m.org/index.php?title=OneM2M_URN_Namespace.

