URN Namespace Registration for Persistent Web IDentifiers (PWID)


Namespace Identifier:

   PWID


Version:
   1


Date:

   2022-11-15


Registrant:

   Eld Maj-Britt Olmuetz Zierau
   Royal Danish Library
   Soeren Kierkegaards Plads 1
   1219 Copenhagen
   Denmark
   ph: +45 9132 4690
   email: elzi&kb.dk


Purpose:

   The PWID URN is a supplement to existing reference standards, where
   the PWID URN will support references to web archives, including areas
   that are not supported today: support of references to material in
   web archives with restricted access.  Furthermore, the PWID URN
   enables technology agnostic references to web archives in general,
   which can be needed, for instance for references to dynamic web
   material with frequent updates (e.g. a news site) or a specific
   version of a web material (e.g. specific version of the DOI
   handbook).

   The PWID URN is in a form which can work as an algorithmic basis for
   finding the resource.  This also enables computation of archived web
   parts to a collection from one or more web archives, if the
   collection parts are specified by PWID URNs.

   Furthermore, the PWID URN includes information about the resource
   which makes it possible to find alternative resources, in cases where
   the original precise resource has become unavailable.

   The PWID URN is designed to be a persistent reference that is
   general, global and technology agnostic in order to enhance its
   chances of being sustainable.  Furthermore, it is designed to be
   humanly readable and with an ability to specify precision about what
   the referenced web archive resource covers.  This design enables a
   PWID URN to:
   o  be used in technical solutions, e.g. to make them resolvable
   o  cover references to materials from all sorts of web archives

   The motivation for defining a PWID namespace is the growing
   challenges of references to archived web resources, and the PWID as a
   URN can assist in overcoming a lot of these challenges.  The standard
   is needed to address web materials meeting precision and persistency
   issues on par with precision in traditional references for analogue
   material.  Furthermore, it is needed in order to address web archive
   resources that are not freely available online.  The PWID URN covers
   both referencing of web resources from research papers and definition
   of web collections/corpora.  In detail the challenges are:

   o  Persistent Identifier systems (like DOI) will only cover
      registered resources.  In general, citation guidelines do not
      cover general and persistent referencing techniques for web
      resources that are not registered.  However, an increasing number
      of references point to resources that only exist on the web, e.g.
      blogs that turn out to have a historical impact.  In order to
      obtain persistency for a reference, the target needs to be stable.
      For non-registered web resources, the common rule is that the
      resource will change, since the live-web is constantly changing.
      Persistency can only be obtained by referring to something stable,
      i.e. an archived version of the resource from the web.  The PWID
      URN is therefore focused on referencing archived web material in a
      technology agnostic way (research documented in [IPRES2016] and
      [ResawRef]).

   o  References to materials, which only exist in web archives (i.e. no
      longer on the live web) are not well supported, especially not for
      materials that only exists in archives with restricted access.
      There are many new initiatives for web archive referencing - most
      of which are centralized solutions offering harvesting and
      referencing, but these cannot be used for materials that only
      exist in web archives.  The PWID URN can be used for all web
      archives, including web archives with restricted access.

   o  One of the referencing initiatives for open web archives uses URLs
      which depend on the current setup of the web archive's access
      platform.  These URLs are usually technology and placement
      dependent, and therefore such a reference style is not suited for
      references that are important to retrace for a long period.  The
      PWID URN can be used for such reference purposes, since it is
      technology agnostic.

   o  Another referencing initiative, for open web archives, is omitting
      specification of the web archive where the resource was found.
      This strategy is used in order to open the possibility of using
      alternatives from other archives.  However, this also adds a risk
      of imprecision since different archives tend to have different
      versions even when harvesting at the same time.  Therefore, such a
      reference style is not suited for references where it is important
      that the reference is precisely the verified reference.  The PWID
      URN can provide an exact reference for where the reference was
      validated.  Additionally, the PWID contains the needed information
      in order to search for alternative resource, if needed.

   o  For web collections/corpora (possibly across different web
      archives), recent research have found that various legal and
      sustainability issues has led to a need of a collection definition
      of references to their web parts.  Furthermore, there is a need
      for a similar persistent referencing for all parts for calculation
      and sustainability reasons.  So far, there has been no stable
      standard for definition of such collection parts.  The PWID URN
      can be used for such definitions in order to fulfil these
      requirements (research documented in [ResawColl]).

   The PWID URN is especially useful for web material where precision is
   in focus and/or there are references to materials from web archives
   requiring special permissions in order to gain access.  The precision
   regards two aspects.  Firstly, pointing out the archive where the
   resource was found and validated against its purpose (other archived
   versions in other web archives may differ both regarding completeness
   and contents even within short time periods) Secondly, specifying
   whether the referred resource is a web page or a part in form of one
   file.

   The possibility of specifying the part/file precision enables the
   PWID URN to be used in specification of contents of a web collection.
   Definitions of web collections are often needed for extraction of
   data used in production of research results, e.g. for future
   evaluations.  Current practices are not persistent as they often use
   some CDX version, which vary for different implementations. 
   Furthermore, the precision part can tell whether the referred source 
   is to be viewed as a file or as a web page, which can be essential 
   for web page code (like HTML) which contain hidden information, e.g. 
   malware.

   Strict syntax is needed for the PWID URN, in order to ensure that it
   can act as a reference which can be used for computational purposes.
   This is especially relevant for automatic extraction of parts from
   web collection definitions.  Furthermore, today's readers of research
   papers are expecting to be able to access a referenced resource by
   clicking an actionable URI, therefore a similar possibility will be
   expected for references to available archived web material, and this
   is possible with a strict syntax.  A prototype for resolving URN
   PWIDs has been developed for the Danish web archive data and open web
   archives with standard patterns for the current technologies.
   Implementations for resolution of PWID URNs for other web archives
   may be developed.

   The purpose of the PWID URN is also to express a web archive
   reference as simple as possible and at the same time meet the
   requirements for sustainability, usability and scope.  Therefore, the
   PWID URN is focused on having only the minimum required information
   to make a precise identification of a resource in an arbitrary web
   archive.  Recent research have shown that this can be obtained by the
   following information [ResawRef]:

   o  Identification of web archive

   o  Identification of source:
      *  Archived URI or identifier
      *  Archival timestamp

   o  Intended precision (page, part/file)

   The PWID URN represents this information in a human readable way as
   well as a well-defined way that enables technical solutions to
   interpret the URN.


Syntax:

   The syntax of the PWID URN is specified below in Augmented Backus-
   Naur Form (ABNF) RFC 5234 and conforms to URN syntax defined in
   RFC 8141.  The syntax definition of the PWID URN is:

        pwid-urn = "urn:" pwid-NID ":" pwid-NSS

        pwid-NID = "pwid"

        pwid-NSS = archive-domain ":" archival-time ":" precision-spec
                              ":" archived-uri

        archival-time = utc-date ["T" utc-time] "Z"
        utc-date   = utc-year "-" utc-month "-" utc-day
        utc-year   = 4DIGIT
        utc-month  = 2DIGIT  ; 01-12
        utc-day    = 2DIGIT  ; 01-28, 01-29, 01-30, 01-31 based on
                         ; month/year in UTC time
        utc-time   = utc-hour [":" utc-minute [":" utc-sec [secfrac]]]
        utc-hour   = 2DIGIT  ; 00-23
        utc-minute = 2DIGIT  ; 00-59
        utc-sec = 2DIGIT  ; 00-58, 00-59, 00-60 based on leap second
                                   ; rules
        secfrac       = "." 1*9DIGIT

        precision-spec = "part" / "page"

      where

      *  All parts of the pwid-NSS are case insensitive, except for
         cases where the archived-uri represents a URI with case
         sensitive parts.  According to section 3.1 of RFC8141 this
         means that the PWID URNs in general are case insensitive,
         except from cases where it includes a case sensitive archived
         URI.

      *  'archive-domain' is <subdomain> as defined in section 3.5 of
         RFC 1034. The 'archive-domain' must identify the web archive 
         by the domain for the archive leading to descriptions of how 
         to access (or apply for access) materialsin the archive.  
         (Discussion of this way to identify the web archive is
         described in the "Assignment" section and discussed in the
         "Additional information" section).

      *  'archival-time' is a UTC timestamp which conforms to ISO8601
         and a subset of date-time specified in RFC 3339 (except from 
         allowing partial time specification).  The 'archival-time' 
         may be specified at any of the levels of granularity, as long 
         as it reflects exactly the granularity of the timestamp 
         recorded in the archive (which is in accordance with the WARC 
         standard ISO28500).

      *  'DIGIT' is defined as in RFC 5234.

      *  'archived-uri' is defined as 'URI' in RFC 3986 but where
         occurrences of "[", "]", "?", "#" and "%" are %-encoded in
         order not to clash with URN reserved characters RFC 8141 as
         well as having unambiguous use of "%".
         The 'archived-uri' must be the URI for the archived source.

      The precision specification is expressing the intended precision
      of the reference, which is needed for specification of

      *  precise coverage of the reference
         e.g. to an html file, since the precise meaning of what the
         reference covers can be very varied (the html file itself? the
         web page it renders to?) or precise web parts of a collection
         specification.

      *  degree of how precise the reference is with respect to what can
         be viewed in the future
         The html file itself will be the same.  However for web pages,
         there are interpretation involved, which mean the result of
         rendering them in the web archive can change over time.  This
         may happen in case the web archive's algorithm for calculation
         of which archived web parts to use for the web page.  It may
         also happen if the web page refers to parts which are added to
         the web archive later, and therefore will give another
         expression than the originally referenced expression.

      The following valid precision-spec values exists:

      *  'page'
         Meaning that an application like Wayback calculates a resulting
         web page based on calculated referenced web parts (display
         templates, images etc.).  For example, an html page displaying
         an image will need both the html and the referred image.

      *  'part'
         Meaning the single archived file/web part harvested as from the
         specified URI.  For references to web pages with html code
         (viewed e.g. by the "View page source" on a web page or using a 
	 get-file function), this will mean the actual file comprising 
	 the html code.  It is relevant to refer to web parts this way, 
	 in case it is part of a collection specification or in case it 
	 is the html that is of interest. It can be relevant only to 
	 view the html code in cases where the referred material is hidden 
	 links, JavaScript or embedded malware.


Assignment:

   The PWID URNs do not have to be assigned by an authority, as they are
   based on the information created at the time of archiving.  In other
   words: a PWID URN is created independently, but following an
   algorithm which ensures that the referred item can be found if it is
   still available.  A prerequisite for assignment of a PWID is that the
   web archive can be located (with a domain describing the web archive)
   and that it has registered metadata about the archived URI and the
   time of archiving (also discussed in section "Additional
   Information").

   A PWID URN is created by finding the relevant information of the
   syntax parts of the PWID:

        "urn:pwid:" archive-domain ":" archival-time ":" precision-spec
                               ":" archived-uri

   The PWID URN for an archived item at hand can be constructed by
   exchanging the unspecified PWID parts with relevant information, as
   explained in the following:

   o  archive-domain (identification of web archive):
      This must be the domain of the web archive which assists in
      locating the web archive and separate the web archive from other
      web archives (e.g. archive.org for Internet Archive's open web
      archive and netarkivet.dk for the Danish web archive with
      restricted access).  The web archive domain is used, since most
      web archives have a web archive domain page that leads to a
      description of how to access the web archive, e.g. by online
      access or by applying for access grants.  Furthermore, it is more
      precise than e.g.  the name of the archive, since there may be
      more than one installation of web archives at the same
      organization, e.g.  archive.org and archive-it.org are both
      covered by Internet Archive.

   o  archival-time (archival timestamp):
      The archival time for the archived item must be specified with as
      much granularity as possible in order to make sure it uniquely
      identifies the resource at hand.  The archival time may be
      displayed along with the archived item, but there are different
      implementations.  It is important to be aware of whether a more
      precise timestamp can be found, and whether the correct timestamp
      is used.  In many Wayback implementations, the precise timestamp
      can be found as part of the URI used for viewing the archived
      item.  For example, the archive http URI
      https://web.archive.org/web/20160122100823/https://www.dr.dk for
      an archived resource viewable via the Internet Archive's Wayback
      installation, the number 20160122100823 represents the archival
      time 2016-01-22T10:08:23Z.  In other installations, the most
      precise timestamp may be found in the URI from a search result
      leading to the resource (which usually redirects on basis of a
      call to the underlying archive index).  Especially for web pages
      with frames, there may be cases where the actual time is not
      displayed with the source, since only the times for the contents
      of the frames are displayed.

   o  precision-spec (part or page):
      The precision specification specifies how the referred item should
      be regarded.  A typical PWID URN reference in a paper would be
      'page', where a tool will be needed to render the web page.
      Alternatively, the precision-spec can be 'part', which is the most
      precise reference since it reference a specific file where no
      additional calculations are needed (e.g. as part of a collection,
      a specific html file with hidden links or malware).  In order to 
      see whether a viewed browser page is a computed web page or a 
      single file, browsers have a function "View page source" which is 
      inactive for single files.

   o  archived-uri (archived URI):
      The URI that was harvested by the web archive for the referenced
      resource.

   A much easier way to construct PWID URNs is to use tools that
   construct them.  Currently, there is also a prototype for a SOLR-
   Wayback tool (Source at https://github.com/netarchivesuite/
   solrwayback) [PWIDprovider], which can assist in finding the most
   precise reference to an archived web page.  This Wayback version can
   provide all PWID URNs belonging to a shown page where the page PWID
   URN is provided at the top of the PWID URN list with 'part'
   precision, i.e. the page PWID URN can be taken replacing the 'part'
   with 'page' or all provided PWID URNs can be taken and e.g. used in a
   collection definition.


Security and Privacy:

   Security and privacy considerations are restricted to accessible web
   resources in web archives.  Resolvers to PWID URNs will usually only
   be possible using the web archives' access tools, where security and
   privacy are covered by these tools.  In such cases, security and
   privacy will be as covered by these tools.

   It should be noted that an archived web page or part could be just as
   dangerous as a "live" page or part; for instance, it could include
   insecure scripts, malware, trackers, etc.  Furthermore, an archived
   page can in fact be more dangerous, because it could include outdated
   scripts with known vulnerabilities that can never be patched because
   the script is archived for all time in a vulnerable state.


Interoperability:

   This is covered by comments in the Syntax description:

   o  the PWID URN conforms to the URI standard defined as in RFC 3986
      and the URN standard RFC 8141.

   o  the 'archival-time' of the PWID URN conforms to the UTC timestamp
      as described in ISO8601 and is in accordance with the WARC standard 
      ISO28500.

   o  for 'archived-uri', this URI conforms to the URI standard defined
      as in RFC 3986, with %-encodings of "[", "]", "#", "?" and "%" in
      order to conform to the URN standard RFC 8141 as well as having
      unambiguous use of "%".


Resolution:

   The information in a PWID URN can be used for locating a web archive
   resource, for any kind of web archive.  It includes the minimum
   information for web archive materials, which enables resolvability,
   manually or by a resolver.  Resolution of a PWID URN is the primary
   motivation of making a formal URN definition, instead of just textual
   representation of the needed parts of a PWID.

   Resolution is done based on the PWID parts.  This can be done
   manually by using information from the PWID parts to lookup the web
   archive and use the web archives tools to search for the resource.
   It can also be done automatically by using the information from the
   PWID parts to construct an URI to locate the archived resource the
   internet (for online web archives) or a local restricted network (for
   web archives with access restrictions).  The relevant information
   from the PWID parts are:

   o  Web archive domain for web archive holding referred resource
      The domain name for the web archive.  For the manual solution,
      this domain is used to find a description of how to access the web
      archive's materials.  For example, "archive.org" is the domain
      name leading to the Internet Archive's interface to their online
      web collection, and "netarkivet.dk" is the domain name leading to
      the website for the Danish web archive with information about how
      to apply for access permission to the web collections.  For an
      automatic solution, the domain will be used to calculate the
      pattern for the URI for the resource.

   o  Archived URI of archived resource
      For the manual solution this domain, the archived URI for the
      resource must be used in search for the resource.  For the
      automatic solution, this is used as a parameter for construction
      of the URI for the resource.

   o  Date and time associated with the archived item
      The archival date and time must be used in manual search for the
      resource or as parameter to automatic construction of the URI for
      the resource.

   o  Precision of what is referred
      The precision contributes to the guidance of how to view the
      referred item.  If the precision is 'page', the resource must be
      browsed using the web archive browsing tool, which computes all
      parts needed for browsing of the page.  If the precision is
      'part', it is the file that is of interest. That means, that it
      is trivial for web parts that are files themselves, e.g. a PDF
      document. For web pages, it is the web page code that is of 
      interest. In most cases, the page can be found and the final
      result can be accessed by us of the "View page source" browser 
      function. However, in cases where the referenced code are of 
      interest because of embedded malware, the resource should instead
      be access by fetching the contents by some sort of get-file 
      function. The part precision can in this way also be used as 
      indicator for access tools, to indicate whether web pages should 
      be viewed as a web page or as the code for the web page.

   In the following, the different resolution techniques are explained
   (manual as well as via a service) using the following PWID URN as an
   example:

     urn:pwid:archive.org:2016-01-22T10:08:23Z:page:https://www.dr.dk

   In this example the information from the URN PWID parts are:

   o  "archive.org"
      Current domain of the Internet Archive used for their open access
      web archive.

   o  "2016-01-22T10:08:23Z"
      UTC date and time associated with the archived URI

   o  "page"
      Clarification that the reference cover the full web page with all
      its inherited parts selected by the web archive

   o  "https://www.dr.dk"
      archived URI of the referenced resource

   A manual resolution technique would be to go through the following
   steps using the specified web archive's search interface (which will
   work for both open web archives and web archives with restricted
   access onsite):

   o  Browse the web archive domain "archive.org"
      In this case, the domain leads directly into a page where you can
      search for archived URIs (in other cases there may be need for
      additional clicks to get to search interface or descriptions of
      how to apply for access).

   o  Enter the archived URI "https://www.dr.dk" in the search field and
      make a search, which will result in an overview of the different
      times that the resource was archived.

   o  Use the archival time "2016-01-22T10:08:23Z" to select the correct
      resource

   The "page" information is used in verification that the right
   precision level is reached.  In case the precision-spec had been
   'part', it would require an extra step selecting "View page source"
   on the resulting page.

   It is also noteworthy that the information in the PWID can help in
   finding an alternative resource, in case the original referred
   resource is no longer available.  The archived URI can be searched in
   other web archives, where the date and time can help to find the best
   match, e.g. via Memento [MEMENTO] (for some open web archives) or via
   possible coming web archive infrastructures.

   Alternative resolution (automatically or manually) of this URN PWID
   can be deduced based on the current (2019) knowledge of Internet
   Archive's open Wayback access web interface, which has the pattern:

      https://web.archive.org/web/<time>/<uri>

   Using this pattern (where only digits from the timestamp is
   included), it is possible to deduce the online https URI:

      https://web.archive.org/web/20160122100823/https://www.dr.dk

   The same recipe can be used for other Wayback platforms for open web
   archives.  For web archives with restricted access, there may be
   similar recipes, but it may also require special applications to
   extract the local URI for the resource (e.g. for Netarkivet, it is
   constructed using an API which uses the local CDX to generate the
   correct local URI for the resource).

   A resolving service is currently available in form of code for a
   prototype which run at the Royal Danish Library [PWIDresolver] and is
   planned to be more widely available.  This service currently covers
   both the Danish web archive (with the proper rights) and open web
   archives with access services based on a pattern including archive,
   archival time and archived URI.  In other words, for open web
   archives it covers conversion of PWID URNs for: archive.org, archive-
   it.org, arquivo.pt, bibalex.org, nationalarchives.gov.uk,
   stanford.edu and vefsafn.is.  For the Danish web archive with
   restricted access, the prototype works locally accessing the CDX of
   the library, and providing access via a local proxy to a restricted
   environment.  The source code for this prototype is available from
   https://github.com/netarchivesuite/NAS-research/releases/tag/0.0.6.


Documentation:

   None relevant.


Additional Information:

   Background:

   The PWID was originally suggested as a URI, based on research between
   a computer science researcher with knowledge of web archiving and
   researchers from humanity subjects (History and Literature).  This
   resulted in the paper "Persistent Web References - Best Practices and
   New Suggestions" [IPRES2016] from the iPres 2016 conference.  In this
   paper, the PWID is referred to as WPID.  However, feedback was
   received displaying a concern that WPID was interpreted as a PID
   related to a PID-system, e.g. as the DOI.  Although the definition of
   a PID does not contradict the name "WPID", there would still be a
   danger of confusing it with PID-systems, which is not the intension.
   Consequently, this suggestion names the PWID instead.
   Comments on the drafted PWID URI (draft-pwid-uri-specification) have 
   suggested that it should be a URN rather than a URI, which is why the 
   PWID URN is defined here.
   
   There has been expressed interest for the PWID at several occasions,
   where it has been presented (iPRES 2016 [IPRES2016] paper, RESAW 2017
   [ResawRef][ResawColl] papers, iPRES 2018 [IPRES2018] best poster,
   iDCC 2019 [IDCC2019] poster.  Especially, web researchers from
   digital humanities have expressed a strong interest in the PWID,
   since it will fill a gap and make it possible for the researchers to
   make the necessary references.

   Limitations to when a PWID URN can be created:

   It can be argued that the PWID URN should not have any restrictions
   to which material it can be applied.  However, in order to make a
   standardized general way to identify material, there need to be
   assumptions on a set of information that can be used for
   identification.

   The limits made are can also be argued to be essential for material
   that are to be referenced on a long time basis, to have information
   about which archive, when it was archived and what was archived.
   
   Possible extensions to be investigated:

   This first version of the PWID only contains a basic definition,
   which means that it does not include all of the possible extensions
   which have been suggested at different conferences and by reviewers.

   The reason is that these suggestions are not mature enough to be 
   included at this stage.  The extensions suggested so far have been:

   o  Having web archives identified by registered identifiers.  There
      will be work on looking at an update to the PWID URN, if there can
      be found a workable solution e.g. by making such a registry by
      IANA.

   o  Having the possibility to use PWID for other web material than
      archived URIs, e.g. snapshots and collections

   o  Discussion of how to extend use of PWID URNs via plugins in
      browsers, standardized way to ask web archives for resource
      specified as a PWID URN and access via future web research
      infrastructure

   o  Having the possibility to specify a checksum in the PWID in cases
      where the resource is a part/file. This could add possibilities to
      indicate that two different PWIDs identify the same content (two 
      copies of the resource harvested from two Web archives)

   Further information can be found in the following publications.

   [IDCC2019] Zierau, E., "Web References Meeting Requirements for 
   Proper Referencing Principles"", February 2019, 
   <http://www.dcc.ac.uk/sites/default/files/documents/IDCC19/222_Web%20References%20Meeting%20Requirements%20for%20Proper%20Referencing%20Principles.pdf>. 
   Poster at 14th International Digital Curation Conference (iDCC) 
   2019.

   [IPRES2016] Zierau, E., Nyvang, C., and T. Kromann, "Persistent Web 
   References - Best Practices and New Suggestions", October 2016, 
   <http://www.ipres2016.ch/frontend/organizers/media/iPRES2016/_PDF/IPR16.Proceedings_4_Web_Broschuere_Link.pdf>.  
   In: proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Preservation 
   of Digital Objects (iPres) 2016, pp. 237-246.

   [IPRES2018] Zierau, E., "Precise and Persistent Web Archive 
   References - Status, context and expected progress of the PWID", 
   September 2018, <https://osf.io/u5w3q/>.  In: proceedings of the 
   15th International Conference on Preservation of Digital Objects 
   (iPres) 2018, DOI: 10.17605/OSF.IO/U5W3Q.

   [MEMENTO]  Memento Development Group, "About the Memento Project", 
   January 2015, <http://mementoweb.org/about/>.  
   urn:pwid:archive.org:2018-11-01T15:26:28Z:page:http://mementoweb.org/about/

   [PWIDprovider] Royal Danish Library (Netarkivet), "SolrWayback 3.1", 
   2018, <https://github.com/netarchivesuite/solrwayback>.  
   urn:pwid:archive.org:2018-06-11T02:00:05Z:page:https://github.com/netarchivesuite/solrwayback

   [PWIDresolver] Royal Danish Library (Netarkivet), "NAS-research 
   version 0.0.6", 2018, 
   <https://github.com/netarchivesuite/NAS-research/releases/tag/0.0.6>.  
   urn:pwid:archive.org:2018-07-16T06:53:51Z:page:https://github.com/netarchivesuite/NAS-research/releases/tag/0.0.6

   [ResawColl] Jurik, B. and E. Zierau, "Data Management of Web Archive 
   Research Data", 2017, 
   <https://archivedweb.blogs.sas.ac.uk/files/2017/06/RESAW2017-JurikZierau-Data_management_of_web_archive_research_data.pdf>.  
   In: proceedings of the RESAW 2017 Conference, DOI: 10.14296/resaw.0002

   [ResawRef] Nyvang, C., Kromann, T., and E. Zierau, "Capturing the Web 
   at Large - a Critique of Current Web Referencing Practices", 2017, 
   <https://archivedweb.blogs.sas.ac.uk/files/2017/06/RESAW2017-NyvangKromannZierau-Capturing_the_web_at_large.pdf>.  
   In: proceedings of the RESAW 2017 Conference, DOI: 10.14296/resaw.0004


Revision Information:

    None.

