Real Estate Standards Organization (RESO)                  J. Darnell, S. DeBord
Request for Comments: xxxx                                                  RESO
Category: Informational                                            December 2020


                        A URN Namespace for RESO


Status of this Memo

  This document is intended to be informational for the internet community. 
  The examples provided are non-normative at this point and RESO may continue 
  to add additional identifiers or change what's outlined here at a future 
  time, where appropriate. 


Abstract

  This document describes a Uniform Resource Name (URN) namespace to be used 
  by the Real Estate Standards Organization (RESO) for the naming of items in 
  RESO's standard metadata catalog, for identifying unique licensees and
  organizations acting as as recorders in real estate transactions within 
  a decentralized network, and for the creation of unique property identifiers
  for real property and related assets.


Copyright Notice

  Copyright (c) Real Estate Standards Organization (RESO). All rights reserved.


1. Introduction

  The Real Estate Standards Organization (RESO) produces metadata catalogs, 
  domain-specific models, and data transport standards for use by real estate 
  transaction processors as well as data producers and consumers. 

  During the recording of transactions, various identifiers are used that 
  originate from many different organizations and participants, both licensed
  and unlicensed, in various formats which involve RESO standard metadata items 
  and their state at a given point of time. 

  The primary goal of the 'reso' URN is to ensure that RESO standard data 
  elements are identified within the transaction in a manner that provides 
  consistent representations of participant and metadata identifiers.

2.  Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   [RFC2119].

3. Specification Template

  3.1 Namespace ID:
    "reso"

  3.2 Registration Information:
    Version: 1
    Date: 2020-12-22

  3.3 Registrant of the Namespace
    Registering Organization: RESO
    Designated Contact: info&reso.org

  3.4 Syntactic Structure
    At the time of publication, URNs that use the 'reso' NID SHOULD have one
    of the following structures:

    3.4.1 RESO Data Dictionary Metadata Elements
      (a) Versioned Metadata Resource Element

          Format:
            urn:reso:metadata:{version}:resource:{resource-name}

          where "version" MAY have values such as "1.6" or "1.7", and
          "resource-name¨ is one of "Property", "Member", "Office", or 
          other resource definitions RESO provides (see references).

          Example: 
            urn:reso:metadata:1.7:resource:property
      
      (b) Versioned Metadata Field Element

          Format:
            urn:reso:metadata:{version}:resource:{resource-name}:field:{field-name}

          where "version" MAY have values such as "1.6" or "1.7",
          "resource-name" is a defined resource, and
          "field-name" is a defined data field in the domain.

          Example: 
            urn:reso:metadata:1.7:resource:property:field:listprice

      (c) Field Metadata Element using Record Identifier

          Format:
            urn:reso:metadata:rid:{rid}

          where "rid" is a version-independent field metadata identifier
          assigned by RESO and unique within its domain.

          Example: 
            urn:reso:metadata:rid:100311

          where rid 100311 is the "AboveGradeFinishedArea" field in RESO's 
          Data Dictionary metadata catalog.

      (d) Lookup Field Metadata Element using Lookup Field Identifier

          Format:
            urn:reso:metadata:lfid:{lookup-field-id}
          
          where "lfid" is a version-independent lookup value metadata 
          identifier assigned by RESO and unique within its domain. 

          Example:
            urn:reso:metadata:lfid:301001

          Lookup fields are used to group related collections of allowed 
          field values. For example, "StandardStatus" can have a value of 
          "Active" or "Active Under Contract" and its lfid is 301001.

      (e) Lookup Metadata Element using Lookup Identifier

          Format:
            urn:reso:metadata:lid:{lookup-id}

          where "lid" is a version-independent lookup value metadata 
          identifier assigned by RESO and unique within its domain. 

          Example:
            urn:reso:metadata:lid:301002

          Lookups values are to uniquely represent standard enumerated
          values that are available for use within a given lookup field.
          For example, "Active Under Contract" has a lid of 301002. 

    
    3.4.2 RESO Universal Property Identifier (UPI)

      Format:
        urn:reso:upi:{upi}

      where "upi" is the RESO Universal Property Identifier (UPI) for a given
      property. 

      The RESO UPI is a standard format that encodes Country, 
      State (FIPS), County (FIPS), Subcounty (FIPS), the parcel number, 
      property type, and optional sub-property type in order to identify
      unique real properties. If two UPIs are constructed from the
      same underlying data using the RESO UPI standard, then the same 
      identifier will be produced across disparate systems even if they don't
      exchange the underlying data. 

      Example:
        urn:reso:upi:us-06037-n-abracanet-r-n

      For more information about the RESO UPI, see section 5.2.


    3.4.3 RESO Unique Licensee Identifier (ULI)

      Format: 
        urn:reso:uli:{uli}

      where "uli" is a globally unique licensee identifier within the 
      RESO domain.

      RESO is constructing a licensee identifier standard and resolution 
      protocol in order to assign a globally unique and immutable identifier 
      to any participant in a transaction. This could be a real estate agent, 
      broker, transaction coordinator, assessor, photographer, and others not 
      specified here. 

      Example:
        urn:reso:uli:123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426652340000

      where 123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426652340000 is a unique
      identifier for a given licensee.

    3.4.4 RESO Unique Organization Identifier (UOI)

      Format:
        urn:reso:uoi:{uoi}

      where "uoi" is a globally unique organization identifier within
      the RESO domain.

      RESO assigns Unique Organization Identifiers within its domain 
      to represent well-known organizations that exist as participants
      in the real estate transaction.

      Example:
        urn:reso:uoi:2352675

      where 2352675 is a unique identifier for a given organization.


    3.4.5 Event Subjects and Recorders in RESO's standard Event Model

      (a) Event Model Subject Identifiers

        Format:
          urn:reso:metadata:1.7:resource:{resource-name}:field:{field-name}:{value}
          urn:reso:metadata:1.7:rid:{rid}:{value}

        These are used to represent the subject in the recording of a
        transaction and MAY have several different formats that build
        on previous metadata URNs by also providing a value:

        Examples:
         urn:reso:metadata:1.7:resource:property:field:listingkey:abc123
         urn:reso:metadata:1.7:resource:member:field:memberkey:z12345
         urn:reso:metadata:1.7:rid:12385:3400000
         urn:reso:upi:us-06037-n-abracanet-r-n


      (b) Event Model Recorder Identifiers

        Format: 
          urn:reso:uoi:{uoi}

        As outlined in 3.4.4, RESO issues unique identifiers
        to be used by well-known organizations that participate in the 
        real estate transaction.

4. Security Considerations

This document introduces no additional security considerations beyond
those associated with the use and resolution of URNs in general.

5. References

  5.1 Normative References
    [RFC2141]  Moats, R., "URN Syntax", RFC 2141, May 1997.

  5.2 Informative References
    [https://ddwiki.reso.org/display/DDW17]
    RESO Data Dictionary 1.7 Wiki, January 2018.

    [https://www.reso.org/universal-property-identifier/]
    RESO Universal Property Identifier (UPI), Dec 2017.
    