Namespace Registration for Trivore Corp.

Namespace Identifier: trivore

Version: 1

Date: 2026-05-01

Registrant:

  Organization: Trivore Corp.
  Contact Role: URN Administrator, urn-admin&trivore.com
  Contact Person: Kari Mattsson (URN Administrator)
  Address: Helsinginkatu 15, 20500 Turku, Finland
  Website: https://www.trivore.com/

Purpose:

This namespace is intended to provide persistent, globally unique, 
location-independent identifiers for resources defined and managed by 
the declared registrant. The identifiers are not intended to resolve 
to network locations. The main usage is standardising technical 
definitions of Trivore products, initially Trivore ID OIDC Scopes and 
Claims, and similar technical definitions for Trivore's IAM product. 
The long-term purpose is to have coherent definitions.

Syntax:

URNs in this namespace follow the syntax:

urn:trivore:<NSS>

The Namespace Specific String (NSS) is defined as a hierarchical 
sequence of segments: 

<NSS> = <segment> 1*(":" <segment>)

where:

<segment> consists of ASCII letters, digits, and the characters "-", 
"_", and ".", and the NSS must contain at least one colon (implying at 
least two segments).

The registrant foresees using "subnamespaces" such as
urn:trivore:id and urn:trivore:iam (and others to be 
defined in the future), where the strings 'id' and 'iam' (etc.) 
would be the first segment of the NSS.

The maximum length for the URN is 512 characters.

Each URN identifies exactly one logical resource defined by the 
registrant. The identifiers are opaque and do not embed personal data.

Lexical equivalence follows the rules defined in RFC 8141. In 
addition, for this namespace the Namespace Specific String (NSS) is 
case-insensitive with respect to ASCII letters; two URNs in this 
namespace are lexically equivalent if their NSS components are equal 
under case-insensitive comparison after applying the RFC 8141 rules.

Assignment:

URNs are assigned exclusively by the declared registrant. Each 
identifier is guaranteed to be unique within the namespace. 
Reassignment is not permitted. URNs in this namespace are intended 
to be persistent. Once assigned, an identifier will not be reused.

Security and Privacy:

The namespace does not include secrets, authentication material, or 
personally identifiable information (PII). Identifiers must not be 
used as access control mechanisms. The namespace does not encode 
personal data, and correlation risks are minimized by avoiding 
meaningful identifiers.

Interoperability: N/A

Resolution:

No resolution mechanism is defined for this namespace.

Documentation:

No external documentation is currently provided. This registration 
document is the primary documentation for the namespace for the moment. 
Product (Trivore ID) documentation is located at:

https://doc.trivoreid.com/

Eventally this URL will contain documentation for URN "subnamespaces"
and all assigned URNs.

Additional Information: N/A

Revision Information: N/A
