Namespace Registration for the International Union of Railways (UIC)

Namespace Identifier:  uic

Version: 1
   
Date: 2023-06-07

Registrant:  

   Name: Union International de Chemin de Fer
   Address: 16, rue Jean Rey 75015 Paris, France
   Contact: David Sarfatti 
   E-mail: osdm&uic.org

Purpose:  

The International Union of Railways (UIC) is engaged in the development 
of standards for interoperability between railway systems. A number of 
documents, definitions, code lists and other artifacts, are managed and 
provided by UIC to support this.  

UIC will provide persistent, location-independent identifiers for these 
resources within this namespace.  

In addition, organizations that subscribe to the interchange standards 
proposed by UIC require external identifiers for data objects that are 
transferred.  UIC wishes to provide a scheme to enable data providers 
to uniquely identify data, which is consistent with the requirements of 
the interchange framework.

Products and services that conform to UIC endorsed interchange 
specifications enable users to exchange and process information across 
networks, computing platforms, and products. To support operation and 
sale of rail products.    

Interoperability in such an environment is facilitated by the use of a 
system of identifiers that is global in scope.  UIC is the lead forum 
for statutory organizations that act as primary providers of technical 
data in this application domain.

Syntax:  

The Namespace Specific String (NSS) of all URNs that use the "uic" NID 
has the following structure:

{UICResource}:{ResourceSpecificString}

where the "UICResource" is a US-ASCII string that specifies the resource 
class and "ResourceSpecificString" specifies the individual resource, 
such that the entire string conforms to the URN syntax requirements 
[RFC8141].  Each resource type has a specific labeling scheme for 
"ResourceSpecificString".

Examples of the "UICResource" and "ResourceSpecificString" strings can
be found at: https://osdm.io/spec/catalog-of-code-lists/

Assignment:  

The UIC provides information on the registered resources and the 
registrations for each. 

The UIC manages resources using the "uic" NID and is the authority for 
managing the resources and subsequent strings associated.  In the 
associated procedures, UIC ensures the uniqueness of the strings 
themselves or permits secondary responsibility for management of 
well-defined sub-trees.

UIC may permit use of experimental-type values that will not be 
registered.  As a consequence, multiple users may end up using the same 
value for separate uses.  As experimental usage is only intended for 
testing purposes, this should not interfere with operational services.

Security and Privacy:  

The URNs of UIC will have a long-term stability avoiding any issues 
on false negatives in caching.

All URNs of UIC are intended to be publicly available. No personal 
data or data that might link to a person will be included.

Interoperability:  

There are no interoperability issues within the uic namespace.

Resolution:  

The namespace is not listed with a Resolution Discovery System 
(RDS), as this is not relevant for the users of this namespace.

Documentation: 

The UIC provides information on the registered resources and the 
registrations for each. 

Revision Information:  

None.