Namespace Registration for Wi-Fi Alliance

Namespace Identifier:

  wfa

Version:

  1

Date:

  2026-05-28

Registrant:

  Name:

    Wi-Fi Alliance

  Address:

    10900-A Stonelake Boulevard, Suite 195, Austin, Texas 78759 U.S.A.
    Phone: +1 512 498 9434 (498-WIFI)
    Fax: +1 512 498 9435

  Designated contact:

    Role: Technical Officer
    Email: technical&wi-fi.org

  Organization Type:

    Standards Development Organization (non-profit corp)
    (requesting fast-track registration procedure)

Purpose:

  Wi-Fi Alliance is a global non-profit industry association that
  owns the Wi-Fi and Wi-Fi CERTIFIED trademarks and oversees the
  certification of Wi-Fi products. Wi-Fi Alliance work includes
  development of Wi-Fi technologies, requirements, and
  certifications that promote a robust global Wi-Fi ecosystem in
  which interoperability of devices is ensured with certification
  and data modelling using YANG and TR-181.

  The specifications for some Wi-Fi Alliance certifications require
  identifiers in a managed namespace so that they are unique and
  persistent.  To ensure that the uniqueness is absolute, the
  registration of a specific Uniform Resource Name (URN) [RFC8141]
  Namespace Identifier (NID) of "wfa" for use by Wi-Fi Alliance is
  being specified in this submission, in full conformance with the
  NID registration process specified in §6.4 of [RFC8141].

Syntax:

  URNs assigned by Wi-Fi Alliance will have the following structure
  based on the organizational structure of the resources specified
  in the Wi-Fi Alliance specifications:

    urn:wfa:{NSS}

  where the syntax of "NSS" is specified in Section 2 of the URN
  Syntax requirements [RFC8141]. Wi-Fi Alliance plans for the NSS to
  have a hierarchical structure and will provide a description of
  the structure as an update following alignment on use cases across
  Wi-Fi Alliance.

Assignment:

  The individual URNs of the wfa namespace shall be solely managed by
  Wi-Fi Alliance.  The latest information about Wi-Fi Alliance defined
  standards and specifications, can be found at:

  https://www.wi-fi.org/specifications

Security and Privacy:

  No potential issues related to security and privacy.

Interoperability:

  There are no known interoperability issues for the requested URN
  namespace.

Resolution:

  The namespace is not listed with a resolution discovery system;
  this is not applicable for this URN registration.
