(Note: Neither RFC 2045 nor RFC 2046 provided a registration template for registered media type image/jpeg. This template was reviewed by the media-types&ietf.org mailing list and approved by the IESG-designated media type experts in 2024.)

Media type name: image

Media subtype name: jpeg

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters: N/A

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations: JPEG stores image data and metadata that is not inherently executable. Implementers of any parser for untrusted data must take standard precautions to avoid introducing security vulnerabilities such as buffer overflows. There are no privacy or integrity mechanisms built in. The format is extensible with application-specific information subject to its own security considerations; for example, digital cameras often include Exif data that may include privacy-sensitive information such as geolocation.

Interoperability considerations: Some common extensions may affect the rendering of the image, such as Exif orientation and ICC color profiles.

Published specification: JPEG File Interchange Format, version 1.02, published September, 1992: https://www.w3.org/Graphics/JPEG/jfif3.pdf

The image/jpeg media type was defined in RFC 2046, published November, 1996: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2046#section-4.2
“A media type of 'image' indicates that the body contains an image. The subtype names the specific image format. These names are not case sensitive. An initial subtype is 'jpeg' for the JPEG format using JFIF encoding [JPEG].”

Applications which use this media: JPEG is widely implemented in Web browsers, digital cameras, image viewers, and other image processing software.

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Restrictions on usage: The baseline variety of JPEG is believed patent-free, and any potentially relevant patents would have expired by now.

Additional information:

1. Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A
2. Magic number(s): FF D8 FF
3. File extension(s): jpg, jpeg
4. Macintosh file type code: JPEG
5. macOS Uniform Type Identifier: public.jpeg conforms to public.image (as per UTType/jpeg and other Apple documentation)
6. Object Identifiers: 1.3.6.1.7.1.2.1.3

Person to contact for further information:

1. Name: Joint Photographic Experts Group
2. Email: info&jpeg.org

Intended usage: COMMON

Author/Change controller: Joint Photographic Experts Group