(registered in RFC3250, updated by RFC3950)

MIME media type name: image

MIME subtype name: tiff-fx

Required parameters: none

Optional parameters: none

Encoding Considerations:

   This media type consists of binary data.  The base64 encoding
   should be used on transports that cannot accommodate binary data
   directly.

Security considerations:

   TIFF-FX utilizes a structure which can store image data and
   attributes of this image data.  The fields defined in the TIFF-FX
   specification are of a descriptive nature and provide information
   that is useful to facilitate viewing and rendering of images by a
   recipient.  As such, the fields currently defined in the TIFF-FX
   specification do not in themselves create additional security
   risks, since the fields are not used to induce any particular
   behavior by the recipient application.

   TIFF-FX has an extensible structure, so that it is theoretically
   possible that fields could be defined in the future which could be
   used to induce particular actions on the part of the recipient,
   thus presenting additional security risks, but this type of
   capability is not supported in the referenced TIFF-FX
   specification.  Indeed, the definition of fields which would
   include such processing instructions is inconsistent with the
   goals and spirit of the TIFF-FX specification.

   The MIME type and file extension defined by this document MUST NOT
   be used to blindly select a processing program.  It is up to the
   implementation to determine the application (if necessary) and
   render the image to the user.

Interoperability considerations:

   The ability of implementations to handle all the defined
   applications (or profiles within applications) of TIFF-FX may not
   be ubiquitous.  As a result, implementations may decode and
   attempt to display the encoded TIFF-FX image data only to
   determine that the image cannot be rendered.

Published specification:

   TIFF-FX (Tag Image File Format Fax eXtended) is defined in:

   RFC 3949, "File Format for Internet Fax", February 2005, Buckley,
   R., Venable, D., McIntyre, L., Parsons, G., and J. Rafferty.

Applications which use this media type:

   Imaging, fax, messaging and multi-media

Additional information:

   Magic number(s):
        II (little-endian):  49 49 2A 00 hex
        MM (big-endian):     4D 4D 00 2A hex
   File extension(s): .TFX
   Macintosh File Type Code(s): TFX

Person & email address to contact for further information:

   Lloyd McIntyre
   Lloyd_McIntyre&Dell.com

   Glenn W. Parsons
   gparsons&nortelnetworks.com

   James Rafferty
   jraff&brooktrout.com

Intended usage: COMMON

Change controller: Lloyd McIntyre