(registered by RFC-seantek-windows-image-03)

Type name: image

Subtype name: wmf

Required parameters: None.

Optional parameters:

  DEFAULT_CHARSET: The character set intended when the CharacterSet
     enumeration (see the WMF specification) specifies
     DEFAULT_CHARSET.  The value of this parameter is a charset name
     defined in accordance to the procedures laid out in RFC 2978
     [RFC2978].  When this parameter is not specified,
     DEFAULT_CHARSET has the following meaning in the WMF
     specification: "a character set based on the current system
     locale; for example, when the system locale is United States
     English, the default character set is ANSI_CHARSET" (which is
     Windows-1252, more or less).  That is, when not specified, the
     default character set is system dependent.  As this optional
     parameter is novel, EMF instead of WMF (or if necessary under
     the circumstances, embedded EMF within WMF) is a more sensible
     choice when text is present.

Encoding considerations: Binary.

Security considerations:

  The Windows Metafile format's security history is punctuated in
  2005-2006 with the disclosure of the Metafile Image Code Execution
  vulnerability, abbreviated as MICE [MICE].  MICE won the 2007
  Pwnie Award for "Mass 0wnage" and "Breaking the Internet".  The
  official Microsoft security bulletin describes that the flaw
  occurs because Windows Metafiles can set the SETABORTPROC value of
  the MetafileEscapes enumeration (accessible via the META_ESCAPE
  record), allowing for arbitrary code execution, i.e., "active
  content".

  Windows Metafiles can contain Enhanced Metafiles using the
  META_ESCAPE_ENHANCED_METAFILE record; thus, the security
  considerations of EMF apply to WMF.

  Windows Metafiles are historically very buggy.  As the original
  intent was to replicate Windows GDI calls, flaws in GDI, or in a
  display or printer driver implementing the backend to GDI, could
  be exploitable.  WMF implementations not backed by Windows GDI
  have different risks: namely, while a malicious WMF author may not
  consider the non-Windows GDI implementation as a primary target,
  WMF has many "corner case" records for which an implementation's
  processing may not have received the same level of scrutiny as the
  Windows implementation.  "Fuzzing" the implementation is
  appropriate.

Interoperability considerations:

  Windows Metafile is the original 16-bit metafile format; it was
  released in 1990 at what some computer historians might consider
  the "zenith" of the desktop publishing revolution.  Accordingly,
  there is a large body of free and commercially available clip art
  that is still in use, either independently or embedded in
  productivity documents (word processing documents, desktop
  publishing documents, slideshows, presentations, spreadsheets, and
  workbooks).  For example, references to WMF content appear (non-
  normatively) in Office Open XML.  To say that support for this
  format is necessary for interoperability would not be an
  understatement.

  Accommodations for comments or arbitrary data storage in Windows
  Metafiles are virtually non-existent.  However, Windows Metafiles
  can contain Enhanced Metafiles using the
  META_ESCAPE_ENHANCED_METAFILE record, so an implementation that
  handles Windows Metafiles is also expected to handle enhanced
  metafile content.  Windows Metafiles can store and output text
  strings (see META_TEXTOUT and META_EXTTEXTOUT records), but the
  encodings of the strings may be ambiguous.  Unicode encodings are
  not possible without the DEFAULT_CHARSET parameter defined in this
  registration.

  The previously unregistered type image/x-wmf is also in wide use.
  Accordingly, it is registered as a deprecated alias.  See Appendix
  A and Section 4.2.9 of [RFC6838].

Published specification:

  WMF: Microsoft Corporation, "[MS-WMF]: Windows Metafile Format",
  v20140502 (Rev 11.1), May 2014,
  <http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/cc250370>.

  MICE: Microsoft Corporation, "Vulnerability in Graphics Rendering
  Engine Could Allow Remote Code Execution (912919)", MS06-001,
  V1.0, January 2006,
  <https://technet.microsoft.com/library/security/ms06-001>.

Applications that use this media type:

  Office productivity applications; clip art applications; desktop
  publishing applications; some web browsers (e.g., Internet
  Explorer).

Fragment identifier considerations: None.

Additional information:

  Deprecated alias names for this type: image/x-wmf

  Magic number(s): D7 CD C6 9A (little-endian DWORD 0x9AC6CDD7)

  File extension(s): .wmf

  Macintosh file type code(s):
     None.  A uniform type identifier (UTI) of "com.microsoft.wmf"
     is suggested.

Person & email address to contact for further information:

  Sean Leonard <dev+ietf&seantek.com>

Restrictions on usage: None.

Author/Change controller: Sean Leonard <dev+ietf&seantek.com>

Intended usage: COMMON

Provisional registration? No