(RFC 6015 published October 2010, subtype last updated October 2010)

Type name: text

Subtype name: 1d-interleaved-parityfec

Required parameters:

o rate: The RTP timestamp (clock) rate in Hz. The (integer) rate
SHALL be larger than 1000 to provide sufficient resolution to RTCP
operations. However, it is RECOMMENDED to select the rate that
matches the rate of the protected source RTP stream.

o L: Number of columns of the source block. L is a positive integer
that is less than or equal to 255.

o D: Number of rows of the source block. D is a positive integer
that is less than or equal to 255.

o repair-window: The time that spans the FEC block (i.e., source
packets and the corresponding repair packets). An FEC encoder
processes a block of source packets and generates a number of
repair packets, which are then transmitted within a certain
duration not larger than the value of the repair window. At the
receiver side, the FEC decoder should wait at least for the
duration of the repair window after getting the first packet in an
FEC block to allow all the repair packets to arrive (the waiting
time can be adjusted if there are missing packets at the beginning
of the FEC block). The FEC decoder can start decoding the already
received packets sooner; however, it SHOULD NOT register an FEC
decoding failure until it waits at least for the repair-window
duration. The size of the repair window is specified in
microseconds.

Optional parameters: None.

Encoding considerations: This media type is framed (see Section 4.8
in the template document [RFC4288]) and contains binary data.

Security considerations: See Section 9 of [RFC6015].

Interoperability considerations: None.

Published specification: [RFC6015].

Applications that use this media type: Multimedia applications that
want to improve resiliency against packet loss by sending redundant
data in addition to the source media.

Additional information: None.

Person & email address to contact for further information: Ali Begen
<abegen&cisco.com> and the IETF Audio/Video Transport Working Group.

Intended usage: COMMON.

Restriction on usage: This media type depends on RTP framing, and
hence, is only defined for transport via RTP [RFC3550].

Author: Ali Begen <abegen&cisco.com>.

Change controller: IETF Audio/Video Transport Working Group delegated
from the IESG.