(per RFC5545)

Type name:  text

Subtype name:  calendar

Required parameters:  none

Optional parameters:  charset, method, component, and optinfo

   The "charset" parameter is defined in [RFC2046] for subtypes of
   the "text" media type.  It is used to indicate the charset used in
   the body part.  The charset supported by this revision of
   iCalendar is UTF-8.  The use of any other charset is deprecated by
   this revision of iCalendar; however, note that this revision
   requires that compliant applications MUST accept iCalendar streams
   using either the UTF-8 or US-ASCII charset.

   The "method" parameter is used to convey the iCalendar object
   method or transaction semantics for the calendaring and scheduling
   information.  It also is an identifier for the restricted set of
   properties and values of which the iCalendar object consists.  The
   parameter is to be used as a guide for applications interpreting
   the information contained within the body part.  It SHOULD NOT be
   used to exclude or require particular pieces of information unless
   the identified method definition specifically calls for this
   behavior.  Unless specifically forbidden by a particular method
   definition, a text/calendar content type can contain any set of
   properties permitted by the Calendaring and Scheduling Core Object
   Specification.  The "method" parameter MUST be specified and MUST
   be set to the same value as the "METHOD" component property of the
   iCalendar objects of the iCalendar stream if and only if the
   iCalendar objects in the iCalendar stream all have a "METHOD"
   component property set to the same value.

   The value for the "method" parameter is defined as follows:

    method  = 1*(ALPHA / DIGIT / "-")
    ; IANA-registered iCalendar object method

   The "component" parameter conveys the type of iCalendar calendar
   component within the body part.  If the iCalendar object contains
   more than one calendar component type, then multiple component
   parameters MUST be specified.

   The value for the "component" parameter is defined as follows:

    component = "VEVENT"
              / "VTODO"
              / "VJOURNAL"
              / "VFREEBUSY"
              / "VTIMEZONE"
              / iana-token
              / x-name

   The "optinfo" parameter conveys optional information about the
   iCalendar object within the body part.  This parameter can only
   specify semantics already specified by the iCalendar object and
   that can be otherwise determined by parsing the body part.  In
   addition, the optional information specified by this parameter
   MUST be consistent with that information specified by the
   iCalendar object.  For example, it can be used to convey the
   "Attendee" response status to a meeting request.  The parameter
   value consists of a string value.

   The parameter can be specified multiple times.

   The value for the "optinfo" parameter is defined as follows:

    optinfo    = infovalue / qinfovalue

    infovalue  = iana-token / x-name

    qinfovalue = DQUOTE (infovalue) DQUOTE

Encoding considerations:  This media type can contain 8bit
   characters, so the use of quoted-printable or base64 MIME Content-
   Transfer-Encodings might be necessary when iCalendar objects are
   transferred across protocols restricted to the 7bit repertoire.
   Note that a text valued property in the content entity can also
   have content encoding of special characters using a BACKSLASH
   character escapement technique.  This means that content values
   can end up being encoded twice.

Security considerations:  See Section 7.

Interoperability considerations:  This media type is intended to
   define a common format for conveying calendaring and scheduling
   information between different systems.  It is heavily based on the
   earlier [VCAL] industry specification.

Published specification:  This specification.

Applications that use this media type:  This media type is designed
   for widespread use by Internet calendaring and scheduling
   applications.  In addition, applications in the workflow and
   document management area might find this content-type applicable.
   The iTIP [2446bis], iMIP [2447bis], and CalDAV [RFC4791] Internet
   protocols directly use this media type also.

Additional information:

   Magic number(s):  None.

   File extension(s):  The file extension of "ics" is to be used to
      designate a file containing (an arbitrary set of) calendaring
      and scheduling information consistent with this MIME content
      type.

      The file extension of "ifb" is to be used to designate a file
      containing free or busy time information consistent with this
      MIME content type.

   Macintosh file type code(s):  The file type code of "iCal" is to
      be used in Apple MacIntosh operating system environments to
      designate a file containing calendaring and scheduling
      information consistent with this MIME media type.

      The file type code of "iFBf" is to be used in Apple MacIntosh
      operating system environments to designate a file containing
      free or busy time information consistent with this MIME media
      type.

Person & email address to contact for further information:  See the
   "Author's Address" section of this document.

Intended usage:  COMMON

Restrictions on usage:  There are no restrictions on where this media
   type can be used.

Author:  See the "Author's Address" section of this document.

Change controller:  IETF