(registered 2020-12-08, last updated 2020-12-08)

Name: Bryn Rhodes

Email: bryn&dynamiccontentgroup.com

Media type name: text

Media subtype name: cql

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters:

   charset - if absent, US-ASCII is assumed

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations: Clinical Quality Language (CQL) interpreted 
   as plain text is relatively harmless. A text editor need only 
   display the text. The editor SHOULD take care to handle control 
   characters appropriately, and to limit the effect of the CQL to 
   the text editing area itself; malicious Unicode-based Markdown 
   could, for example, surreptitiously change the directionality of 
   the text. An editor for normal text would already take these 
   control characters into consideration, however.

   For systems that are capable of evaluating CQL expressions, the 
   language itself is pure-functional with specific limitations that 
   prevent generalized recursion. However, CQL is a data access 
   language similar to SQL, and is capable of expressing queries that 
   result in large amounts of data. Execution environments SHOULD 
   provide facilities to limit the potential for denial-of-service 
   attacks.

   In addition, the language has facilities for referencing logic 
   defined in external libraries; systems that support this 
   capability SHOULD ensure that security concerns related to running 
   general code can be appropriately addressed.

   The language is designed for and used in healthcare settings. As 
   such, appropriate precautions for protecting patient safety and 
   privacy SHALL be considered. In particular, the language supports 
   mechanisms for tracing and logging of intermediate expression 
   results; mechanisms for ensuring appropriate use of and exposure 
   to patient data SHALL be provided.

Interoperability considerations: Clinical Quality Language (CQL) is 
   designed to enable platform- and model-independent sharing of 
   logic in the healthcare domain. The specification separates the 
   representation of logic from the representation of the data model 
   on which it operates, as well as the terminology used to specify 
   any concepts referenced by the logic. Libraries of CQL specify the 
   model on which they operate, and systems that evaluate CQL for 
   specific models must be capable of providing data access in the 
   model expected by the CQL. The specification should be consulted 
   for more details on interoperability considerations when 
   exchanging CQL.

Published specification:

   http://cql.hl7.org

Applications which use this media: Healthcare applications that deal 
   with clinical quality and public health reporting, clinical 
   decision support, and clinical research and registries. 
   Applications range from implementation guides that use CQL to 
   share unambiguous descriptions of queries and logic, to decision 
   support services and quality reporting systems that either 
   translate or directly evaluate the CQL.

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Additional information:

   1. Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A
   2. Magic number(s): N/A
   3. File extension(s): CQL
   4. Macintosh file type code: N/A
   5. Object Identifiers: N/A

General Comments:


Person to contact for further information:

   1. Name: Bryn Rhodes
   2. Email: bryn&dynamiccontentgroup.com

Intended usage: Common

   Used for exchange of knowledge and logic in healthcare-related 
   applications.

Author/Change controller: Health Level Seven International (HL7) 
   (http://hl7.org)