(registered 2020-12-08, last updated 2020-12-08)

Name: Bryn Rhodes

Email: bryn&dynamiccontentgroup.com

Media type name: text

Media subtype name: fhirpath

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters:

   charset - if absent, US-ASCII is assumed

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations: FHIRPath interpreted as plain text is 
   relatively harmless. A text editor need only display the text. The 
   editor SHOULD take care to handle control characters 
   appropriately, and to limit the effect of the FHIRPath to the text 
   editing area itself; malicious Unicode-based FHIRPath could, for 
   example, surreptitiously change the directionality of the text. An 
   editor for normal text would already take these control characters 
   into consideration, however.

   For systems that are capable of evaluating FHIRPath expressions, 
   the language itself is pure-functional with specific limitations 
   that prevent generalized recursion. However, FHIRPath can be 
   embedded in larger contexts (in particular as invariants within 
   FHIR resources and profiles). Execution environments SHOULD 
   provide facilities to limit the potential for denial-of-service 
   attacks.

   In addition, the language has facilities for referencing logic 
   defined in external libraries; systems that support this 
   capability SHOULD ensure that security concerns related to running 
   general code can be appropriately addressed.

   The language is designed for and used in healthcare settings. As 
   such, appropriate precautions for protecting patient safety and 
   privacy SHALL be considered. In particular, the language supports 
   mechanisms for tracing and logging of intermediate expression 
   results; mechanisms for ensuring appropriate use of and exposure 
   to patient data SHALL be provided.

Interoperability considerations: FHIRPath is designed to enable 
   platform- and model-independent sharing of path-traversal and 
   simple logic expressions in the healthcare domain. The 
   specification separates the representation of logic from the 
   representation of the data model on which it operates, as well as 
   the terminology used to specify any concepts referenced by the 
   logic. Environments that make use of FHIRPath establish the 
   specific model and terminology available to the FHIRPath 
   expression. Details for the use of FHIRPath in specific contexts 
   are provided as part of other specifications such as FHIR and CQL, 
   and those specifications should be consulted for more information 
   on interoperability considerations.

Published specification:

   http://hl7.org/fhirpath

Applications which use this media: Many 100s of applications across 
   healthcare, including EHRs, patient registries, Clinical research 
   applications, Terminology servers

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Additional information:

   1. Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A
   2. Magic number(s): N/A
   3. File extension(s): N/A
   4. Macintosh file type code: N/A
   5. Object Identifiers: N/A

General Comments:


Person to contact for further information:

   1. Name: Bryn Rhodes
   2. Email: bryn&databaseconsultinggroup.com

Intended usage: Common

   Used for exchange of path-traversal and simple expressions in 
   healthcare-related applications.

Author/Change controller: Health Level Seven International (HL7) 
   (http://hl7.org)