(registered 2020-08-17, last updated 2020-08-19)

Media type name: text

Media subtype name: gff3

Required parameters: The "charset" parameter is required as there is 
   no default charset. Nevertheless, for portability with other 
   systems, use of UTF-8 is recommended.

Optional parameters: None

Encoding considerations: 8bit
   Some whitespace and delimiter characters are URL-encoded; see the 
   specification for details.

Security considerations: The GFF3 format is descriptive and does not 
   "include provisions for directives that institute actions on a 
   recipient's files or other resources". It is a simple 
   tab-delimited text format, but nevertheless the usual precautions 
   apply when parsing new GFF3 files, in case they are accidentally 
   or maliciously broken.

Interoperability considerations: Line-ending characters depend on the 
   originating operating system, such as CR LF for Windows, CR for 
   Macintosh and LF for Unix.

Published specification:
   https://github.com/The-Sequence-Ontology/Specifications/blob/master/gff3.md

Applications which use this media: The GFF3 format is used in 
   bioinformatics to output, export and exchange descriptions of 
   various features on biological sequences such as nucleic acids or 
   proteins. It is used by command-line tools and by web services 
   such as genome browsers.

Fragment identifier considerations: None

Restrictions on usage: None

Additional information:

   1. Deprecated alias names for this type: text/x-gff3
   2. Magic number(s): Although no byte sequences can be counted on 
      to always be present, GFF3 data in ASCII-compatible character 
      sets (including UTF-8) often begin with hexadecimal 23 23 67 66 
      66 2d 76 65 72 73 69 6f 6e 20 33 ("##gff-version 3").
   3. File extension(s): gff3
   4. Macintosh file type code: None
   5. Object Identifiers: None

General Comments:


Person to contact for further information:

   1. Name: Sequence Ontology
   2. Email: song-devel&lists.utah.edu

Intended usage: Common
   The GFF3 is a standard format in bioinformatics.

Author/Change controller: Sequence Ontology