(registered 2022-07-22, last updated 2022-07-22)

Media type name: text

Media subtype name: hl7v2

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters:

   charset - if absent, US-ASCII is assumed

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations: HL7 Version 2.9 is largely silent about the 
   issues of privacy authentication and confidentiality of data that 
   pass through HL7 messages. HL7 makes no assumption about the 
   ultimate use of data but rather assumes that both source and 
   destination applications provide for these requirements. In 
   addition, HL7 does not, at this time, specify what, if any, 
   encryption method should be used when transporting HL7-based 
   messages between two or more systems. At this time, HL7 
   implementers should familiarize themselves with legal and 
   professional requirements for these topics specific to their 
   country’s national or local requirements.

   However HL7 provides a standardized way of exchanging requirements 
   for restrictions as well as identifying the data affected by 
   privacy law and confidentiality rules. HL7 has developed the HL7 
   Healthcare Privacy and Security Classification System (HCS), 
   Release 1 (see: http://www.hl7.org/implement/standards/product_brief.cfm?product_id=345). 
   In v2.9 this vocabulary can be used in the following segments:

   • Message Header segment (MSH) in chapter 2.14.9
   • User Access Control segment (UAC) in chapter 2.4.15
   • Access Restriction segment (ARV) in chapter 3.3.14
   • Consent segment (CON) in chapter 9.7.1

   Implementers are encouraged to make use of these fields in their 
   respective implementation guides.

Interoperability considerations:Health Level 7’s Version 2.x (HL7 V2) 
   is designed to enable clinical messaging that provides data about 
   events that occur inside an organization to share event 
   notifications within the healthcare domain. The HL7 V2 messaging 
   standard is the workhorse of electronic data exchange in the 
   clinical domain and arguably the most widely implemented standard 
   for healthcare in the world. This messaging standard allows the 
   exchange of clinical data between systems. It is designed to 
   support a central patient care system as well as a more 
   distributed environment where data resides in departmental 
   systems. However the healthcare system itself has wide variations 
   in information and business processes across jurisdiction, domain, 
   institution type, and clinical context.

Published specification:

   http://www.hl7.org/implement/standards/product_brief.cfm?product_id=185

Applications which use this media: Many 100s of applications across 
   healthcare, including EHRs, laboratory information systems and 
   diagnostic testing systems, patient scheduling systems, and all 
   types of systems that need to monitor patient admission, 
   discharge, and transfer information.

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Additional information:

   1. Deprecated alias names for this type: n/A
   2. Magic number(s): N/A
   3. File extension(s): N/A
   4. Macintosh file type code: N/A
   5. Object Identifiers: N/A

Person to contact for further information:

   1. Name: Marc Duteau
   2. Email: Marc&hl7.org

Intended usage: Common

   Used for exchange of knowledge and logic in healthcare-related 
   applications

Author/Change controller: Health Level Seven International (HL7) 
   (http://hl7.org)