(last update 2012-04-13)

Name : Jesse Alama

Email : j.alama&fct.unl.pt

MIME media type name : Text

MIME subtype name : Standards Tree -mizar

Required parameters : None.

Optional parameters :
One optional parameter:

* version

indicating the version of the Mizar language to which the file purports to adopt. The value is a string such as "7.12.01" (which is the current version of the Mizar language and tool suite at the time of submitting this application).

Encoding considerations : 7bit


Security considerations :
None.

Interoperability considerations :


Published specification :
The language is documented at http://mizar.org/language . See also A. Grabowski, A. Kornilowicz, and A. Naumowicz, "Mizar in a Nutshell",
Journal of Formalized Reasoning 3(2), 2010, pp. 153-245.

Applications which use this media :
Mizar articles with the proposed MIME type are intended to be edited by text editors and served by web servers.

Additional information :

1. Magic number(s) : none
2. File extension(s) : .miz
3. Macintosh file type code : none
4. Object Identifiers: none

- Window clipboard flavor: "Mizar"

- Macintosh Uniform Type Identifier: "org.mizar" conforms to "public.text"

Thanks to Paul Libbrecht for his helpful advice given on the IETF-types mailing list while this proposal was being edited. This submission is intended as the final draft of the proposed text/mizar MIME type.

Person to contact for further information :

1. Name : Jesse Alama
2. Email : j.alama&fct.unl.pt

Intended usage : Common
The mizar language is a language for formalized mathematical documents.
Authors use this langauge to express definitions of mathematical
concepts, and express and proof formal mathematical statements. The
language has been developed since the 1970s and today is used in
teaching logic and mathematics in various high school and universty
settings. The library of mathematical knowledge formalized in the mizar
language, the Mizar Mathematical Library, consists (at the time of
application) of more than 1100 "articles" which, like an ordinary
mathematical article in a journal, are coherent presentations and
developments of mathematics. Mizar texts are intended to be used by plain text editors.

Author/Change controller : Association of Mizar Users (SUM)
sum&mizar.uwb.edu.pl