(file updated 2011-03-28)

Type name:
    text
Subtype name:
    n3
Required parameters:
    None
Optional parameters:
    charset — this parameter is required when transfering non-ASCII data. If present, 
    the value of charset is always UTF-8.
Encoding considerations:
    The syntax of Notation3 is expressed over code points in Unicode [UNICODE]. The 
    encoding is always UTF-8 [RFC3629].
    Unicode code points may also be expressed using an \uXXXX (U+0 to U+FFFF) or 
    \UXXXXXXXX syntax (for U+10000 onwards) where X is a hexadecimal digit [0-9A-F]
Security considerations:
    Notation3 is a general-purpose assertion and logic language; built-in functions 
    evaluate given data to infer more assertions. Certain built-in functions may 
    dereference URIs, invoking the security considerations of the scheme for that URI. 
    Note in particular, the privacy issues in [RFC3023] section 10 for HTTP URIs. Data 
    obtained from an inaccurate or malicious data source may lead to inaccurate or 
    misleading conclusions, as well as the dereferencing of unintended URIs. Built-in 
    functions allow one to parameterize the incorporation of data: one example of more 
    careful behavior would be to incorporate a source document only ifs hash matches a 
    stated value and one may incorporate only those assertions matching a stated pattern. 
    Care must be taken to align the trust in consulted resources with the sensitivity of 
    the intended use of the data; inferences of potential medical treatments would likely 
    require different trust than inferences for trip planning.
    Notation3 is used to express arbitrary application data; security considerations will 
    vary by domain of use. Security tools and protocols applicable to text (e.g. PGP 
    encryption, MD5 sum validation, password-protected compression) may also be used on 
    Notation3 documents. Security/privacy protocols must be imposed which reflect the 
    sensitivity of the embedded information.
    Notation3 can express data which is presented to the user, for example, RDF Schema 
    labels. Application rendering strings retrieved from untrusted Notation3 documents 
    must ensure that malignant strings may not be used to mislead the reader. The security 
    considerations in the media type registration for XML ([RFC3023] section 10) provide 
    additional guidance around the expression of arbitrary data and markup.
    Notation3 uses IRIs as term identifiers. Applications interpreting data expressed in 
    Notation3 sould address the security issues of Internationalized Resource Identifiers 
    (IRIs) [RFC3987] Section 8, as well as Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic 
    Syntax [RFC3986] Section 7.
    Multiple IRIs may have the same appearance. Characters in different scripts may look 
    similar (a Cyrillic "о" may appear similar to a Latin "o"). A character followed by 
    combining characters may have the same visual representation as another character 
    (LATIN SMALL LETTER E followed by COMBINING ACUTE ACCENT has the same visual 
    representation as LATIN SMALL LETTER E WITH ACUTE). Any person or application that is 
    writing or interpreting data in Notation3 must take care to use the IRI that matches 
    the intended semantics, and avoid IRIs that make look similar. Further information 
    about matching of similar characters can be found in Unicode Security Considerations 
    [UNISEC] and Internationalized Resource Identifiers (IRIs) [RFC3987] Section 8.
Interoperability considerations:
    There are no known interoperability issues.
Published specification:
    http://www.w3.org/TeamSubmission/2008/SUBM-n3-20080114/
Applications which use this media type:
    No widely deployed applications are known to use this media type. It may be used by some 
    web services and clients consuming their data.
Additional information:
Magic number(s):
    Notation3 documents may have the strings '@prefix' or '@base' (case dependent) near the 
    beginning of the document.
File extension(s):
    ".n3"
Base URI:
    The Notation3 '@base <IRIref>' term can change the current base URI for relative IRIrefs in 
    the query language that are used sequentially later in the document.
Macintosh file type code(s):
    "TEXT"
Person & email address to contact for further information:
    Eric Prud'hommeaux <eric at w3.org>
Intended usage:
    COMMON
Restrictions on usage:
    None
Author/Change controller:
    The Notation3 specification is the product of Tim Berners-Lee. A W3C Working Group may assume 
    maintenance of this document; W3C reserves change control over this specifications.

(file created 2011-03-28)