(per RFC4102)

MIME media type name: text

MIME subtype name: RED

Required parameters:
   rate: the RTP clock rate of the payload carried within the RTP
   packet.  Typically, this rate is 1000, but other rates MAY be
   specified.  This parameter MUST be set equal to the clock rate of
   the text payload format carried as the primary encoding.

   pt: a comma-separated ordered list of RTP payload types
   enumerating the primary, secondary, etc., in accordance with RFC
   2198.  Because comma is a special character, the list MUST be a
   quoted-string (enclosed in double quotes).  For static payload
   types, each list element is simply the type number.  For dynamic
   payload types, each list element is a mapping of the dynamic
   payload type number to an embedded MIME content-type specification
   for the payload format corresponding to the dynamic payload type.
   The format of the mapping is:

            dynamic-payload-type "=" content-type

   If the content-type string includes a comma, then the content-
   type string MUST be a quoted-string.  If the content-type string
   does not include a comma, it MAY still be quoted.  Because it is
   part of the list, which must itself be a quoted-string, the
   quotation marks MUST be quoted with backslash quoting as specified
   in RFC 2045 [4].  If the content-type string itself contains a
   quoted-string, then the requirement for backslash quoting is
   recursively applied.

Optional parameters: ptime, maxptime (these attributes are originally
   defined in RFC 2327 [5] and RFC 3267 [6], respectively)

Restrictions on Usage:
   This type is defined only for transfer via RTP.
   It shall not be defined for a storage format.

Encoding considerations:
   See restrictions on Usage above; this section is included per
   the requirements in RFC 3555 [7].

Security considerations: Refer to section 5 of RFC 4102.

Interoperability considerations: none

Published specification: RFC 2198

Applications which use this media type:
   Text streaming and conferencing tools.

Additional information: none

Person & email address to contact for further information:
   Paul E. Jones
   E-mail: paulej&packetizer.com

Intended usage: COMMON

Author:
   Paul E. Jones
   paulej&packetizer.com

Change Controller:
   AVT Working Group delegated from the IESG
