(per RFC4263)

Type name: text

Subtype name: troff

Required parameters: none

Optional parameters:

   charset: Must be a charset registered for use with MIME text types
      [N3.RFC2046], except where transport protocols are explicitly
      exempted from that restriction.  Specifies the charset of the
      media content.  With traditional source content, this will be
      the default "US-ASCII" charset.  Some recent versions of troff
      processing software can handle Unicode input charsets; however,
      there may be interoperability issues if the input uses such a
      charset (see "Interoperability considerations" below).

   process: Human-readable additional information for formatting,
      including environment variables, preprocessor arguments and
      order, formatter arguments, and postprocessors.  The parameter
      value may need to be quoted or encoded as provided for by
      [N4.RFC2045] as amended by [N5.RFC2231] and [N6.Errata].
      Generating implementations must not encode executable content
      and other implementations must not attempt any execution or
      other interpretation of the parameter value, as the parameter
      value may be prose text.  Implementations SHOULD present the
      parameter (after reassembly of continuation parameters, etc.)
      as information related to the media type, particularly if the
      media content is not immediately available (e.g., as with
      message/external-body composite media [N3.RFC2046]).

   resources: Lists any additional files or programs that are
      required for formatting (e.g., via .cf, .nx, .pi, .so, and/or
      .sy directives).

   versions: Human-readable indication of any known specific versions
      of preprocessors, formatter, macro packages, postprocessors,
      etc., required to process the content.

Encoding considerations:

   7bit is adequate for traditional troff provided line endings are
      canonicalized per [N3.RFC2046].  Transfer of this media type
      content via some transport mechanisms may require or benefit
      from encoding into a 7bit range via a suitable encoding method
      such as the ones described in [N4.RFC2045].  In particular,
      some lines in this media type might begin or end with
      whitespace, and that leading and/or trailing whitespace might
      be discarded or otherwise mangled if the media type is not
      encoded for transport.

   8bit may be used with Unicode characters represented as a series
      of octets using the utf-8 charset [I4.RFC3629], where transport
      methods permit 8bit content and where content line length is
      suitable.  Transport encoding considerations for robustness may
      also apply, and if a suitable 8bit encoding mechanism is
      standardized, it might be applicable for protection of media
      during transport.

   binary may be necessary when raw Unicode is used or where line
      lengths exceed the allowable maximum for 7bit and 8bit content
      [N4.RFC2045], and may be used in environments (e.g., HTTP
      [I5.RFC2616]) where Unicode characters may be transferred via a
      non-MIME charset such as UTF-16 [I6.RFC2781].

   framed encoding MAY be used, but is not required and is not
      generally useful with this media type.

Restrictions on usage: none

Security considerations: Some troff directives (.sy and .pi) can
   cause arbitrary external programs to be run.  Several troff
   directives (.so, .nx, and .cf) may read external files (and/or
   devices on systems that support device input via file system
   semantics) during processing.  Several preprocessors have similar
   features.  Some implementations have a "safe" mode that disables
   some of these features.  Formatters and preprocessors are
   programmable, and it is possible to provide input which specifies
   an infinite loop, which could result in denial of service, even in
   implementations that restrict use of directives that access
   external resources.  Users of this media type SHOULD be vigilant
   of the potential for damage that may be caused by careless
   processing of media obtained from untrusted sources.

   Processing of this media type other than by facilities that strip
   or ignore potentially dangerous directives, and processing by
   preprocessors and/or postprocessors, SHOULD NOT be invoked
   automatically (i.e., without user confirmation).  In some cases,
   as this is a text media type (i.e., it contains text that is
   comprehensible without processing), it may be sufficient to
   present the media type with no processing at all.  However, like
   any other text media, this media type may contain control
   characters, and implementers SHOULD take precautions against
   untoward consequences of sending raw control characters to display
   devices.

   Users of this media type SHOULD carefully scrutinize suggested
   command lines associated with the "process" parameter, contained
   in comments within the media, or conveyed via external mechanisms,
   both for attempts at social engineering and for the effects of
   ill-considered values of the parameter.  While some
   implementations may have "safe" modes, those using this media type
   MUST NOT presume that they are available or active.

   Comments may be included in troff source; comments are not
   formatted for output.  However, they are of course readable in the
   troff document source.  Authors should be careful about
   information placed in comments, as such information may result in
   a leak of information, or may have other undesirable consequences.

   While it is possible to overlay text with graphics or otherwise
   produce formatting instructions that would visually obscure text
   when formatted, such measures do not prevent extracting text from
   the document source, and might be ineffective in obscuring text
   when formatted electronically, e.g., as PostScript or PDF.

Interoperability considerations: Recent implementations of
   formatters, macro packages, and preprocessors may include some
   extended capabilities that are not present in earlier
   implementations.  Use of such extensions obviously limits the
   ability to produce consistent formatted output at sites with
   implementations that do not support those extensions.  Use of any
   such extensions in a particular document using this media type
   SHOULD be indicated via the "versions" parameter value.

   As mentioned in the Introduction, macro packages are troff
   documents, and their content may be subject to copyright.  That
   has led to multiple independent implementations of macro packages,
   which may exhibit gross or subtle differences with some content.

   Some preprocessors or postprocessors might be unavailable at some
   sites.  Where some implementation is available, there may be
   differences in implementation that affect the output produced.
   For example, some versions of the "pic" preprocessor provide the
   capability to fill a bounded graphical object; others lack that
   capability.  Of those that support that feature, there are
   differences in whether a solid fill is represented by a value of
   0.0 vs. 1.0.  Some implementations support only gray-scale output;
   others support color.

   Preprocessors or postprocessors may depend on additional programs
   such as awk, and implementation differences (including bugs) may
   lead to different results on different systems (or even on the
   same system with a different environment).

   There is a wide variation in the capabilities of various
   presentation media and the devices used to prepare content for
   presentation.  Indeed, that is one reason that there are two basic
   formatter program types (nroff for output where limited formatting
   control is available, and troff where a greater range of control
   is possible).  Clearly, a document designed to use complex or
   sophisticated formatting might not be representable in simpler
   media or with devices lacking certain capabilities.  Often it is
   possible to produce a somewhat inferior approximation; colors
   might be represented as gray-scale values, accented characters
   might be produced by overstriking, italics might be represented by
   underlining, etc.

   Various systems store text with different line ending codings.
   For the purpose of transferring this media type between systems or
   between applications using MIME methods, line endings MUST use the
   canonical CRLF line ending per [N3.RFC2046].

Published specification: [N1.CSTR54]

Applications which use this media type: The following applications in
   each sub-category are examples.  The lists are not intended to be
   exhaustive.

   Preprocessors: tbl [I7.CSTR49], grap [I8.CSTR114], pic
      [I9.CSTR116], chem [I10.CSTR122], eqn [I11.eqn], dformat
      [I12.CSTR142]

   Formatters: troff, nroff, Eroff, sqtroff, groff, awf, cawf

   Format converters: deroff, troffcvt, unroff, troff2html, mm2html

   Macro packages: man [I13.UNIXman1], me [I14.me], mm
      [I15.DWBguide], ms [I16.ms], mv [I15.DWBguide], rfc
      [I2.Lilly05]

Additional information:

   Magic number(s): None; however, the content format is distinctive
      (see "Published specification").

   File extension(s): Files do not require any specific "extension".
      Many are in use as a convenience for mechanized processing of
      files, some associated with specific macro packages or
      preprocessors; others are ad hoc.  File names are orthogonal to
      the nature of the content.  In particular, while a file name or
      a component of a name may be useful in some types of automated
      processing of files, the name or component might not be capable
      of indicating subtleties such as proportion of textual (as
      opposed to image or formatting directive) content.  This media
      type SHOULD NOT be assigned a relationship with any file
      "extension" where content may be untrusted unless there is
      provision for human judgment that may be used to override that
      relationship for individual files.  Where appropriate, a file
      name MAY be suggested by a suitable mechanism such as the one
      specified in [I17.RFC2183] as amended by [N5.RFC2231] and
      [N6.Errata].

   Macintosh File Type Code(s): unknown

Person & email address to contact for further information:
   Bruce Lilly
   blilly&erols.com

Intended usage: COMMON

Author/Change controller: IESG

Consistency: The media has provision for comments; these are
   sometimes used to convey recommended processing commands, to
   indicate required resources, etc.  To avoid confusing recipients,
   senders SHOULD ensure that information specified in optional
   parameters is consistent with any related information that may be
   contained within the media content.
