(per RFC2483)

Name : Ron Daniel Jr.

E-mail : rdaniel&lanl.gov

MIME media type name : Text

MIME subtype name : IETF Tree - uri-list

Required parameters : none

Optional parameters : charset

Currently, URIs can be represented using US-ASCII. However, there
are many non-standard URIs which use special character sets.
Discussion of how to best achieve internationalization of URIs is
underway. This registration will be updated with a discussion of the
URI charsets once that discussion has concluded.

Encoding considerations : Some transfer protocols, such as SMTP,
place limits on the length of lines. Very long URIs might exceed
those limits. Systems must therefore be prepared to use a suitable
content transfer encoding. This is anticipated to be a rare
occurance.

Security considerations : Client software should be aware of the
security considerations of URIs.  For example, accessing some URIs
can result in sending a death threat to a head of state, frequently
prompting a visit from the relevant protective service.  Accessing
other URIs may result in financial obligations, or access to
resources considered inappropriate by one's employer.

While the legitimate provider of a uri-list could exploit these
properties for good or ill, it is more likely that uri-lists will be
falsified in order to exploit such characteristics of URIs.

Additionally, the lookup and reverse lookup potential of the uri-
list may be attractive to traffic analysts. URI lists may also
reveal confidential information, such as the location of sensitive
information.

Because of these considerations, external confidentiality measures
should be available to protect uri-list responses when appropriate.

Interoperability considerations : none known

Published specification : Uniform Resource Locators (URLs) and
Uniform Resource Names (URNs) are two instances of the more general
class of identifiers known as Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs).
URN resolution methods frequently wish to return lists of URLs for a
resource so that fault-tolerance and load balancing can be achieved.
The text/uri-list format is intended to be a very simple format for
communicating such lists of URLs (and URNs) in a form suitable for
automatic processing.

The format of text/uri-list resources is:

1) Any lines beginning with the '#' character are comment lines
    and are ignored during processing. (Note that URIs may contain
    the '#' character, so it is only a comment character when it is
    the first character on a line.)

2) The remaining non-comment lines shall be URIs (URNs or URLs),
    encoded according to the URL or URN specifications (RFC2141,
    RFC1738 and RFC2396). Each URI shall appear on one and only one
    line. Very long URIs are not broken in the text/uri-list format.
    Content-transfer-encodings may be used to enforce line length
    limitations.

3) As for all text/* formats, lines are terminated with a CRLF pair.

In applications where one URI has been mapped to a list of URIs, the
first line of the text/uri-list response SHOULD be a comment giving
the original URI.

An example of the format is given below:

  # urn:isbn:0-201-08372-8
  http://www.huh.org/books/foo.html
  http://www.huh.org/books/foo.pdf
  ftp://ftp.foo.org/books/foo.txt

Applications which use this media : URN resolvers are the initial
applications. Web clients and proxies are applications that are
likely to support this format in the future.

Additional information :

1. Magic number(s) : none at this time
2. File extension(s) : .uris or .uri recommended
3. Macintosh file type code : URIs recommended

This media type is the product of the URN working group of the IETF.

Person to contact for further information :

1. Name : Ron Daniel Jr.
2. E-mail : rdaniel&lanl.gov

Intended usage : Limited Use
The text/uri-list media type is intended for use in applications
which utilize URIs for replicated resources.

Author/Change controller : Ron Daniel Jr.
Los Alamos National Laboratory
rdaniel&lanl.gov
