Type name:  font

Subtype name:  sfnt

Required parameters:  None

Optional parameters:

   1) Name: outlines  Values: a comma-separated subset of True Type
      Font (TTF), Compact Font Format (CFF), and SVG

      This parameter can be used to specify the type of outlines
      provided by the font.  The value "TTF" shall be used when a
      font resource contains glyph outlines in TrueType format, the
      value "CFF" shall be used to identify fonts containing
      PostScript/CFF outlines [cff-wiki], and the value SVG
      [svg-wiki] shall be used to identify fonts that include SVG
      outlines.  TTF, CFF, or SVG outlines can be present in various
      combinations in the same font file; therefore, this optional
      parameter is a list containing one or more items, separated by
      commas.  Order in the list is not significant.

   2) Name: layout

      Values: a comma-separated subset of OTL, Apple Advanced
      Typography (AAT), and SIL

      This parameter identifies the type of implemented support for
      advanced text layout features.  The predefined values "OTL",
      "AAT", and "SIL", respectively, indicate support for OpenType
      text layout, Apple Advanced Typography, or Graphite SIL.  More
      than one shaping and layout mechanism may be provided by the
      same font file; therefore, this optional parameter is a list
      containing one or more items, separated by commas.  Order in
      the list is not significant.

Encoding considerations:  Binary

Interoperability considerations:  As it was noted in the first
   paragraph of RFC 8081's Security Considerations section, a single 
   font file can contain encoding of the same glyphs using several
   different representations, e.g., both TrueType and PostScript
   (CFF) outlines.  Existing font rendering engines may not be able
   to process some of the particular outline formats, and downloading
   a font resource that contains only an unsupported glyph data
   format would be futile.  Therefore, it is useful to clearly
   identify the format of the glyph outline data within a font using
   an optional parameter, and allow applications to make decisions
   about downloading a particular font resource sooner.  Similarly,
   another optional parameter identifies the type of text shaping and
   layout mechanism that is provided by a font.

Published specification:  ISO/IEC 14496-22 "Open Font Format" (OFF)
   specification [ISO.14496-22.2015] being developed by ISO/IEC SC29/
   WG11.

Applications that use this media type:  All applications that are
   able to create, edit, or display textual media content.

   Note that "font/sfnt" is an abstract type from which the (widely
   used in practice) "font/ttf" and "font/otf" types are conceptually
   derived.  Use of "font/sfnt" is likely to be rare in practice, and
   might be confined to:

      Uncommon combinations such as "font/sfnt; layout=sil" that do
      not have a shorter type

      Cases where a new parameter value is registered

      Test cases, experimentation, etc.

Additional information:

   Magic number(s):  The TrueType fonts and OFF / OpenType fonts
      containing TrueType outlines should use 0x00010000 as the
      'sfnt' version number.

      The OFF / OpenType fonts containing CFF data should use the tag
      'OTTO' as the 'sfnt' version number.

   File extension(s):  Font file extensions used for OFF / OpenType
      fonts: .ttf and .otf

      Typically, the .ttf extension is only used for fonts containing
      TrueType outlines, whereas the .otf extension can be used for
      any OpenType/OFF font, and either can be used with the TrueType
      or CFF outlines.

   Macintosh file type code(s):  (no code specified)

   Macintosh Universal Type Identifier code:  "public.font"

   @font-face Format:  None

   Fragment Identifiers  None

   Deprecated Alias:  The existing registration "application/font-
      sfnt" is deprecated in favor of "font/sfnt".

Person & email address to contact for further information:  Vladimir
   Levantovsky (vladimir.levantovsky&monotype.com).

Intended usage:  COMMON

Restrictions on usage:  None

Author:  The ISO/IEC 14496-22 "Open Font Format" specification is a
   product of the ISO/IEC JTC1 SC29/WG11.

Change controller:  The ISO/IEC has change control over this
   specification.



