(registered 2018-04-06, last updated 2018-04-06)

Type name: audio

Subtype name: aac

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters: N/A

Encoding considerations: Binary

   Files are encoded binary MPEG-4 Advanced Audio Coding (AAC) media 
   packed in one of the following MPEG-4 audio formats:

      1) Low Overhead Audio Transport Multiplex / Low Overhead Audio 
         Stream (LATM/LOAS) as defined in ISO/IEC 14496-3
      2) Audio Data Transport Stream (ADTS) as defined in 
         ISO/IEC 14496-3

   Receivers can distinguish the two by inspecting the binary data 
   stream and searching for the syncwords as listed below:

      1) Syncword for LOAS AudioSyncStream() 0x2B7 (11bit sequence)
      2) Syncword for LOAS EPAudioSyncStream() 0x4DE1 (16bit 
         sequence)
      3) Syncword for ADTS adts_sequence() 0xFFF (12bit sequence)

   The syncword should be the first bits that are received from a 
   server when requesting data identified with this mime type.

   Encoded audio files packed in LATM/LOAS format should have the 
   file extension ".loas".

   Encoded audio files packed in ADTS format should have the file 
   extension ".aac".

   Files shall be transmitted without CR/LF conversion, 7-bit 
   stripping, or any other modification to the binary data.

   Files may contain ID3v2.x frames at any frame boundary.

   For use over the Internet, it is assumed that lower layers take 
   care of transmission errors, so audio/aac data may include frames 
   without the optional cyclic redundancy check (CRC).

   The AAC audio data is binary data, and must be specifically 
   encoded for non-binary transport; the Base64 encoding is suitable 
   when attaching to Email. Note that the MPEG audio data typically 
   does not yield further compression when using file-based lossless 
   compression, e.g. zip.

Security considerations: AAC is a tagged data format, and some tags 
   are available for private use (e.g. the Data Stream Element). As 
   such, arbitrary material could potentially be transferred in the 
   AAC stream, including executable content. Tagged data containing 
   executable content should never be sent and must not be executed 
   if it is received.

   Note: The requirement that such content must not be executed on 
   receipt is especially important since situations exist where 
   content will be generated independently and therefore could 
   contain executable content that the sender or receiver is unaware 
   of. 

   It is the responsibility of the decoder/player client to respect 
   and apply appropriate file security and protection against any 
   potential malicious content.

   AAC is an algorithm that can drastically reduce and compress audio 
   data and hence audio/aac objects represent compressed data. 
   Conversely, depending on the previously applied compression 
   factor, decoding / uncompressing this data can lead to a 
   significant growth in data size.

   audio/aac objects are not signed or encrypted internally. External 
   security mechanisms must be employed to ensure content 
   confidentiality and integrity.

Interoperability considerations: The AAC family of codec technologies 
   is specified in ISO/IEC 13818-7 as AAC LC Profile, in 
   ISO/IEC 14496-3 as AAC, HE-AAC and HE-AAC v2 Profiles. 
   Implementations of the AAC family of technologies have reference 
   software for reading and writing the file format and are available 
   for a variety of computer platforms.

Published specification:

   ISO/IEC 14496-3
   ISO/IEC 13818-7

Applications that use this media type: Advanced Audio Coding (AAC) 
   audio is device, platform, and vendor neutral and is supported by 
   a wide range of encoders and decoders/players, for example for 
   Multimedia, HLS Audio-Only Streams - IETF HTTP Live Streaming, 
   SHOUTcast/Icecast2 Audio Streams.

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Additional information:

   Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A
   Magic number(s): N/A 
   File extension(s): .adts or .aac (ADTS), .loas or .ass (LATM/LOAS)
   Macintosh file type code(s): N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

   Max Neuendorf
   max.neuendorf&iis.fraunhofer.de

Intended usage: Common

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Author:

   Max Neuendorf
   max.neuendorf&iis.fraunhofer.de

Change controller: ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29/WG11 ("MPEG")
