(RFC 4598 published July 2006, subtype last updated July 2006)

Type name: audio

Subtype name: eac3

Required parameter:

o  rate: The RTP timestamp clock rate that is equal to the audio
   sampling rate.  Permitted rates are 32000, 44100, and 48000.

Optional parameter:

o  bitStreamConfig: The configuration of programs and substreams in
   the bit stream, expressed as a sequence of ASCII characters.  This
   parameter can serve two purposes.  First, during the creation of a
   session, the bitStreamConfig parameter might be used to negotiate
   a match between the requirements of a bit stream and the
   capabilities of a receiver to avoid using network bandwidth for
   data that cannot be used.  Second, it makes the configuration of
   the bit stream explicit to the receiver so that whenever a packet
   is lost, the receiver can identify which kind of frame(s) has been
   lost to aid error mitigation.

   The format for the value for this parameter is to represent each
   substream of the bit stream by a single character indicating its
   type, immediately followed by the number of audio channels
   resulting if a frame of that substream (plus any other required
   substreams) is decoded.  Note that even though Low-Frequency
   Effects (LFE) channels are often described as "fractional"
   channels (e.g., the ".1" in 5.1), for this parameter, an LFE
   channel is counted as one (e.g., a 5.1-channel configuration is
   indicated as 6).  The configuration of the bit stream MUST match
   the value of this parameter for the duration of the session.

   Allowed values for the substream type are as follows:

   i - Independent substream.
   d - Dependent substream.

The E-AC-3 specification [ETSI] defines which configurations of bit
streams are legal, which constrains the values the bitStreamConfig
parameter will take.  Each program starts with, and contains exactly
one, independent substream ('i').  Each independent substream is
followed by between 0 and 8 dependent substreams ('d'), which belong
to the same program.  See Section 2.1.2 for more discussion of
programs and substreams.

For example, consider a bit stream containing two programs:

*  the first program with

   +  a six-channel independent substream
   +  a dependent substream containing the additional channels needed
      for eight channels
   +  a second dependent substream containing the further channels
      needed for 14 channels

*  along with a second program with

   +  another six-channel independent substream
   +  a dependent substream containing the additional channels needed
      for eight channels

Then the configuration of the bit stream is indicated as follows:

   bitStreamConfig = i6d8d14i6d8

When the bitStreamConfig parameter is being used in an offer/answer
exchange, zero (0) for the number of channels for a substream in an
answer is used to indicate a substream that the answerer desires not
to receive.

Encoding considerations:

   This media type is framed and contains binary data.

Security considerations:

   See Section 6 of RFC 4598.

Interoperability considerations:

To maintain interoperability with AC-3-capable end-points, in cases
where negotiation is possible, an E-AC-3 end-point SHOULD declare
itself also as AC-3 capable (i.e., supporting also "audio/ac3" as
specified in RFC 4184 [RFC4184]).  Note that all E-AC-3 end-points
are required to be AC-3 capable.

Published specification:

   RFC 4598 and ETSI TS 102.366 [ETSI].

Applications that use this media type:

   Multichannel audio compression of audio, and audio for video.

Additional information:

   Magic number(s):  The first two octets of an E-AC-3 frame are
      always the synchronization word, which has the hex value
      0x0B77.

Person & email address to contact for further information:

   Brian Link <bdl&dolby.com> IETF AVT working group.

Intended usage:

   COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

   This media type depends on RTP framing, and hence is only defined
   for transfer via RTP [RFC3550].  Transport within other framing
   protocols is not defined at this time.

Author/Change controller:

   IETF Audio/Video Transport Working Group delegated from the IESG.
