(RFC 4788 published January 2007, subtype last updated January 2007)

Type name:  audio

Subtype names:  EVRC1

Required parameters:  none

Optional parameters:

   ptime:  See RFC 8866.

   maxptime:  The maximum amount of media that can be encapsulated in
      each packet, expressed as time in milliseconds.  The time MUST
      be calculated as the sum of the time the media present in the
      packet represents.  The time SHOULD be a multiple of the
      duration of a single codec data frame (20 msec).  If not
      signaled, the default maxptime value MUST be 200 milliseconds.

   fixedrate:  Indicates the EVRC rate of the session while in
      single-rate operation.  Valid values include: 0.5 and 1, where
      a value of 0.5 indicates the 1/2 rate, while a value of 1
      indicates the full rate.  If this parameter is not present, 1/2
      rate is assumed.

   silencesupp:  Permissible values are 0 and 1.  A value of 1
      indicates that the sender of this parameter: a) is capable of
      receiving silence-suppressed speech using DTX, AND b) is
      capable of and will send out silence-suppressed speech using
      DTX, unless the other end indicates that it does not want to
      receive silence-suppressed speech using DTX.

      A value of 0 indicates that the sender of this parameter: a)
      does NOT want to receive silence-suppressed speech using DTX,
      AND b) will NOT send out silence-suppressed speech using DTX.

      If this parameter is not present, the default value 1 MUST be
      assumed.  If the RTP receiver indicates through the use of SIP
      signaling or other means that it is incapable of or unwilling
      to use silence suppression using DTX, silence suppression using
      DTX as specified in this document MUST NOT be used for the
      session.

   dtxmax:  Permissible values are from 0 to 255.  Indicates the
      maximum DTX update interval in number of frames.  During DTX,
      the RTP sender occasionally updates the RTP receiver about the
      change in background noise characteristics, etc., by sending a
      new silence frame to the RTP receiver.  The RTP receiver may
      use 'dtxmax' to indicate to the RTP sender the maximum interval
      (in number of frames) between any two DTX updates it expects to
      receive from the RTP sender.

      If this parameter is not present in a session that uses DTX,
      the default value 32, as specified in [8], MUST be assumed.
      This parameter MUST be ignored if silence suppression using DTX
      is not used for the session.

      Note also that if the RTP receiver elects to detect DTX using
      dtxmax, the dtxmax parameter will affect the amount of delay
      the RTP receiver sees before detecting DTX in the stream.

   dtxmin:  Permissible values are from 0 to 255.  Indicates the
      minimum DTX update interval in number of frames.  The RTP
      receiver may use 'dtxmin' to indicate to the RTP sender the
      minimal interval (in number of frames) between any two DTX
      updates it expects to receive from the RTP sender.

      If this parameter is not present, the default value 12, as
      specified in [8] MUST be assumed.  This parameter MUST be
      ignored if silence suppression using DTX is not used for the
      session.

   hangover:  Permissible values are from 0 to 255.  Indicates the
      number of consecutive silence frames transmitted at the end of
      an active speech interval but before the DTX interval begins.
      When setting up an RTP session that uses DTX, an RTP receiver
      can use this parameter to signal the number of silence frames
      it expects to receive before the beginning of DTX.  While
      hangover=0 is allowed, it is RECOMMENDED that hangover be set
      to 1 or greater since the presence of silence frames at the end
      of an active speech can help the RTP receiver to identify the
      beginning of the DTX period.

      If this parameter is not present for a session that uses DTX,
      the default value 1, as specified in [8] MUST be assumed.  This
      parameter MUST be ignored if silence suppression using DTX is
      not used for the session.

Encoding considerations:
   This media type is framed binary data (see RFC 4288, Section 4.8)
   and is defined for transfer of EVRC-encoded data via RTP, using
   the compact bundled format as described in RFC 4788.

Security considerations:  See Section 9 of RFC 4788.

Interoperability considerations:  none

Published specification:
   The EVRC vocoder is specified in 3GPP2 C.S0014 [2].  Transfer
   method with compact bundled RTP format is specified in RFC 4788.

Applications that use this media type:
   It is expected that many VoIP applications (as well as mobile
   applications) will use this type.

Additional information:  none

Person & email address to contact for further information:
   Qiaobing Xie <Qiaobing.Xie&motorola.com>

Intended usage:  COMMON

Restrictions on usage:
   This media type depends on RTP framing; hence, it is only defined
   for transfer via RTP (RFC 3550 [5]).  Transfer within other
   framing protocols is not defined at this time.

Author:
   Qiaobing Xie

Change controller:
   IETF Audio/Video Transport working group delegated from the IESG.