(RFC 5405 published January 2009)

Media Type Definition

   The media type for the G.719 codec is allocated from the IETF tree
   since G.719 has the potential to become a widely used audio codec in
   general Voice over IP (VoIP), teleconferencing, and streaming
   applications.  This media type registration covers real-time transfer
   via RTP.

   Note, any unspecified parameter MUST be ignored by the receiver to
   ensure that additional parameters can be added in any future revision
   of this specification.

   Type name: audio

   Subtype name: G719

   Required parameters: none

   Optional parameters:

   interleaving:  Indicates that interleaved mode SHALL be used for the
      payload.  The parameter specifies the number of frame-block slots
      available in a de-interleaving buffer (including the frame that is
      ready to be consumed) for each source.  Its value is equal to one
      plus the maximum number of frames that can precede any frame in
      transmission order and follow the frame in RTP timestamp order.
      The value MUST be greater than zero.  If this parameter is not
      present, interleaved mode SHALL NOT be used.

   int-delay:  The minimal media time delay in milliseconds that is
      needed to avoid underrun in the de-interleaving buffer before
      starting decoding, i.e., the difference in RTP timestamp ticks
      between the earliest and latest audio frame present in the de-
      interleaving buffer expressed in milliseconds.  The value is a
      stream property and provided per source.  The allowed values are
      zero to the largest value expressible by an unsigned 16-bit
      integer (65535).  Please note that in practice, the largest value
      that can be used is equal to the declared size of the interleaving
      buffer of the receiver.  If the value for some reason is larger
      than the receiver buffer declared by or for the receiver, this
      value defaults to the size of the receiver buffer.  For sources
      for which this value hasn't been provided, the value defaults to
      the size of the receiver buffer.  The format is a comma-separated
      list of synchronization source (SSRC) ":" delay in ms pairs, which
      in ABNF [RFC5234] is expressed as:

        int-delay = "int-delay=" source-delay *("," source-delay)
		  
		  source-delay = SSRC ":" delay-value
		  
		  SSRC = 1*8HEXDIG ; The 32-bit SSRC encoded in hex format
		  
		  delay-value = 1*5DIGIT ; The delay value in milliseconds

		  Example: int-delay=ABCD1234:1000,4321DCB:640

		  NOTE: No white space allowed in the parameter before the end of
		  all the value pairs

   max-red:  The maximum duration in milliseconds that elapses between
      the primary (first) transmission of a frame and any redundant
      transmission that the sender will use.  This parameter allows a
      receiver to have a bounded delay when redundancy is used.  Allowed
      values are between zero (no redundancy will be used) and 65535.
      If the parameter is omitted, no limitation on the use of
      redundancy is present.

   channels:  The number of audio channels.  The possible values (1-6)
      and their respective channel order is specified in Section 4.1 of
      [RFC3551].  If omitted, it has the default value of 1.

   CBR:  Constant Bitrate (CBR) indicates the exact codec bitrate in
      bits per second (not including the overhead from packetization,
      RTP header, or lower layers) that the codec MUST use.  "CBR" is to
      be used when the dynamic rate cannot be supported (one case is,
      e.g., gateway to H.320).  "CBR" is mostly used for gateways to
      circuit switch networks.  Therefore, the "CBR" is the rate not
      including any FEC as specified in Section 4.3.1.  If FEC is to be
      used, the "b=" parameter MUST be used to allow the extra bitrate
      needed to send the redundant information.  It is RECOMMENDED that
      this parameter is only used when necessary to establish a working
      communication.  The usage of this parameter has implications for
      congestion control that need to be considered; see Section 9.

   ptime:  see [RFC4566].

   maxptime:  see [RFC4566].

   Encoding considerations:  This media type is framed and binary; see
      Section 4.8 of [RFC4288].

   Security considerations:  See Section 10 of RFC 5404.

   Interoperability considerations:  The support of the Interleaving
      mode is not mandatory and needs to be negotiated.  See Section 7.2
      for how to do that for SDP-based protocols.

   Published specification:  RFC 5404

   Applications that use this media type:  Real-time audio applications
      like Voice over IP and teleconference, and multi-media streaming.

   Additional information:  none

   Person & email address to contact for further         information:
      Ingemar Johansson
      <ingemar.s.johansson&ericsson.com>

   Intended usage:  COMMON

   Restrictions on usage:  This media type depends on RTP framing, and
      hence is only defined for transfer via RTP [RFC3550].  Transport
      within other framing protocols is not defined at this time.

   Author:
      Ingemar Johansson <ingemar.s.johansson&ericsson.com>
      Magnus Westerlund <magnus.westerlund&ericsson.com>

   Change controller:  IETF Audio/Video Transport working group
      delegated from the IESG.

   Additionally, note that file storage of G.719-encoded audio in ISO
   base media file format is specified in Annex A of [ITU-T-G719].
   Thus, media file formats such as MP4 (audio/mp4 or video/mp4)
   [RFC4337] and 3GP (audio/3GPP and video/3GPP) [RFC3839] can contain
   G.719-encoded audio.