(registered 2020-04-04, last updated 2020-04-04)

Media type name: audio

Media subtype name: mhas

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters: N/A

Encoding considerations: binary

   Files are encoded binary MHAS audio packets in the MPEG-H Audio 
   Stream (MHAS) format as defined in ISO/IEC 23008-3.

   Files shall be transmitted without CR/LF conversion, 7-bit 
   stripping, or any other modification to the binary data.

   For use over the Internet, it is assumed that lower layers take 
   care of transmission errors, so audio/mhas data may include frames 
   without the optional cyclic redundancy check (CRC).

Security considerations: MPEG-H 3D Audio is a tagged data format and 
   does not employ executable content. Some tags are available for 
   private use (e.g. the Data Stream Element). As such, arbitrary 
   material could potentially be transferred in the MPEG-H 3D Audio 
   stream, including executable content. Tagged data containing 
   executable content should never be sent and must not be executed 
   if it is received.

   Note: The requirement that such content must not be executed on 
   receipt is especially important since situations exist where 
   content will be generated independently and therefore could 
   contain executable content that the sender or receiver is unaware 
   of.

   It is the responsibility of the decoder/player client to respect 
   and apply appropriate file security and protection against any 
   potential malicious content.

   The decoder/player needs to have access to sufficient memory for 
   storing the data obtained from decoding an MPEG-H 3D Audio stream.

   audio/mhas objects are not signed or encrypted internally. 
   External security mechanisms must be employed to ensure content 
   confidentiality and integrity.

Interoperability considerations: The MPEG-H 3D Audio codec technology 
   is specified in ISO/IEC 23008-3. Implementations of the MPEG-H 3D 
   Audio technology have reference software for reading and writing 
   the file format and are available for a variety of computer 
   platforms.

Published specification: ISO/IEC 23008-3

Applications which use this media: MPEG-H 3D Audio is device, 
   platform, and vendor neutral and is supported by a wide range of 
   encoders and decoders/players, for example for Multimedia, HLS 
   IETF HTTP Live Streaming, and MPEG-DASH.

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Additional information:

   1. Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A

   2. Magic number(s): Receivers can search for the following 
      syncword within the binary data stream: mpeghAudioStreamPacket()
      0xC001A5 (24bit sequence).

   3. File extension(s): .mhas

   4. Macintosh file type code: N/A

   5. Object Identifiers: N/A

General Comments: N/A

Person to contact for further information:

   1. Name: Nils Peters; Ingo Hofmann
   2. Email: npeters&qti.qualcomm.com; ingo.hofmann&iis.fraunhofer.de

Intended usage: Common

Author/Change controller: ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29/WG11 (a. k. a. "MPEG")  