(registered in RFC3003)

MIME media type name: audio

MIME subtype name: mpeg

Required parameters: none

Optional parameters: none

Encoding considerations:

    For use over internet it is assumed that lower layers take care
    of transmission errors, so audio/mpeg data MAY include MPEG
    frames generated without the optional cyclic redundancy checks
    (CRC) for improved audio quality.

    The MPEG audio data is binary data, and must be encoded for
    non-binary transport; the Base64 encoding is suitable for Email.
    Note that the MPEG audio data does not compress easily using
    lossless compression.

Security considerations:

     MPEG is a tagged data format, and some tags are available for
     private use.  As such, arbitrary material could potentially
     be transferred in the MPEG stream, including executable content.
     Tagged data containing executable content SHOULD never be sent
     and MUST not be executed if it is received.

                             NOTE

         The requirement that such content not be executed on receipt
         is especially important since situations exist where content
         will be generated independently and therefore could contain
         executable content that the sender is unaware of.

     Audio/mpeg objects are not signed or encrypted internally.
     External security mechanisms must be employed to ensure content
     confidentiality

Interoperability considerations:

    MPEG audio has proven to be widely interoperable across computer
    platforms.

Published specification: see [MPEG-1] and [MPEG-2]

Applications which use this media type:

    MPEG audio is device-, platform- and vendor-neutral and is
    supported by a wide range of encoders and decoders (players).

Additional information:

    Magic number(s): none
    File extension(s): .mp1, .mp2, .mp3
    Macintosh File Type Code(s): MPEG
    Object Identifier(s) or OID(s): none

Person & email address to contact for further information:

    The author of this document.

Intended usage: COMMON

Author/Change controller: Martin Nilsson (see section 5)

3.  Security Considerations

Security considerations are discussed in the security considerations
clause of the MIME registration in section 2.
