(registered via RFC-ietf-payload-rtp-opus-11)

Type name: audio


Subtype name: opus


Required parameters:

rate:  the RTP timestamp is incremented with a 48000 Hz clock rate
   for all modes of Opus and all sampling rates.  For data encoded
   with sampling rates other than 48000 Hz, the sampling rate has to
   be adjusted to 48000 Hz.

Optional parameters:

maxplaybackrate:  a hint about the maximum output sampling rate that
   the receiver is capable of rendering in Hz.  The decoder MUST be
   capable of decoding any audio bandwidth but due to hardware
   limitations only signals up to the specified sampling rate can be
   played back.  Sending signals with higher audio bandwidth results
   in higher than necessary network usage and encoding complexity, so
   an encoder SHOULD NOT encode frequencies above the audio bandwidth
   specified by maxplaybackrate.  This parameter can take any value
   between 8000 and 48000, although commonly the value will match one
   of the Opus bandwidths (Table 1).  By default, the receiver is
   assumed to have no limitations, i.e. 48000.


sprop-maxcapturerate:  a hint about the maximum input sampling rate
   that the sender is likely to produce.  This is not a guarantee
   that the sender will never send any higher bandwidth (e.g. it
   could send a pre-recorded prompt that uses a higher bandwidth),
   but it indicates to the receiver that frequencies above this
   maximum can safely be discarded.  This parameter is useful to
   avoid wasting receiver resources by operating the audio processing
   pipeline (e.g. echo cancellation) at a higher rate than necessary.
   This parameter can take any value between 8000 and 48000, although
   commonly the value will match one of the Opus bandwidths
   (Table 1).  By default, the sender is assumed to have no
   limitations, i.e. 48000.


maxptime:  the maximum duration of media represented by a packet
   (according to Section 6 of [RFC4566]) that a decoder wants to
   receive, in milliseconds rounded up to the next full integer
   value.  Possible values are 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 60, or an arbitrary
   multiple of an Opus frame size rounded up to the next full integer
   value, up to a maximum value of 120, as defined in Section 4.  If
   no value is specified, the default is 120.

ptime:  the preferred duration of media represented by a packet
   (according to Section 6 of [RFC4566]) that a decoder wants to
   receive, in milliseconds rounded up to the next full integer
   value.  Possible values are 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 60, or an arbitrary
   multiple of an Opus frame size rounded up to the next full integer
   value, up to a maximum value of 120, as defined in Section 4.  If
   no value is specified, the default is 20.

maxaveragebitrate:  specifies the maximum average receive bitrate of
   a session in bits per second (b/s).  The actual value of the
   bitrate can vary, as it is dependent on the characteristics of the
   media in a packet.  Note that the maximum average bitrate MAY be
   modified dynamically during a session.  Any positive integer is
   allowed, but values outside the range 6000 to 510000 SHOULD be
   ignored.  If no value is specified, the maximum value specified in
   Section 3.1.1 for the corresponding mode of Opus and corresponding
   maxplaybackrate is the default.

stereo:  specifies whether the decoder prefers receiving stereo or
   mono signals.  Possible values are 1 and 0 where 1 specifies that
   stereo signals are preferred, and 0 specifies that only mono
   signals are preferred.  Independent of the stereo parameter every
   receiver MUST be able to receive and decode stereo signals but
   sending stereo signals to a receiver that signaled a preference
   for mono signals may result in higher than necessary network
   utilization and encoding complexity.  If no value is specified,
   the default is 0 (mono).


sprop-stereo:  specifies whether the sender is likely to produce
   stereo audio.  Possible values are 1 and 0, where 1 specifies that
   stereo signals are likely to be sent, and 0 specifies that the
   sender will likely only send mono.  This is not a guarantee that
   the sender will never send stereo audio (e.g. it could send a pre-
   recorded prompt that uses stereo), but it indicates to the
   receiver that the received signal can be safely downmixed to mono.
   This parameter is useful to avoid wasting receiver resources by
   operating the audio processing pipeline (e.g. echo cancellation)
   in stereo when not necessary.  If no value is specified, the
   default is 0 (mono).


cbr:  specifies if the decoder prefers the use of a constant bitrate
   versus variable bitrate.  Possible values are 1 and 0, where 1
   specifies constant bitrate and 0 specifies variable bitrate.  If
   no value is specified, the default is 0 (vbr).  When cbr is 1, the
   maximum average bitrate can still change, e.g. to adapt to
   changing network conditions.


useinbandfec:  specifies that the decoder has the capability to take
   advantage of the Opus in-band FEC.  Possible values are 1 and 0.


   Providing 0 when FEC cannot be used on the receiving side is
   RECOMMENDED.  If no value is specified, useinbandfec is assumed to
   be 0.  This parameter is only a preference and the receiver MUST
   be able to process packets that include FEC information, even if
   it means the FEC part is discarded.

usedtx:  specifies if the decoder prefers the use of DTX.  Possible
   values are 1 and 0.  If no value is specified, the default is 0.


Encoding considerations:


   The Opus media type is framed and consists of binary data
   according to Section 4.8 in [RFC6838].

Security considerations:

   See Section 8 of [RFC-ietf-payload-rtp-opus-11].

Interoperability considerations: none


Published specification: [RFC-ietf-payload-rtp-opus-11]     


Applications that use this media type:

   Any application that requires the transport of speech or audio
   data can use this media type.  Some examples are, but not limited
   to, audio and video conferencing, Voice over IP, media streaming.

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A


Person & email address to contact for further information:

   SILK Support silksupport&skype.net
   Jean-Marc Valin jmvalin&jmvalin.ca

Intended usage: COMMON


Restrictions on usage:

   For transfer over RTP, the RTP payload format (Section 4 of 
   [RFC-ietf-payload-rtp-opus-11]) SHALL be used.

Author:

   Julian Spittka jspittka&gmail.com

   Koen Vos koenvos74&gmail.com

   Jean-Marc Valin jmvalin&jmvalin.ca


Change controller: IETF Payload Working Group delegated from the IESG