(last updated 2007-04-27)

Type name: audio

Subtype name: rtp-enc-aescm128

Required parameters: 
opt:             The payload type number of the payload type contained in the encrypted payload. An 
                 integer value between 0-127.
rate:            The timestamp rate of this payload type, which shall be the same as that of the original 
                 payload type. This is an integer value between 1 and 2^32.
ContentID:       The OMA DRM content ID [75] used to identify the content when establishing a crypto 
                 context. The value is an RFC 3986 [60] URI, which shall be quoted using <">. 
RightsIssuerURL: The right issuer URL as defined by OMA DRM [75]. The value is an URI in accordance 
                 with RFC 3986 [60], which shall be quoted using <">.
IVnonce:         The value of this parameter is the nonce that forms the IV as specified by the crypto 
                 transform, encoded using Base 64 [69]. 

Optional parameters:
SelectiveEncryption: Indicates if this stream is selectively encrypted. Allowed values are 0 (false) and 1 (true). 
                     If not present, selective encryption shall not be used. Please note that unless this indicator is 
                     integrity protected, it fulfills no purpose. 

Encoding considerations:
This type is framed and binary as defined in [96].

Security considerations:
See considerations raised in RTP RFC 3550 [9] and any applicable profile like RFC 3551 [10] or RFC 3711 [72]. 
Further see 3GPP TS 26.234, Release 6, Annex K for comments on security issues. The main issues that exists are:

-   This RTP payload format only confidentiality protects the RTP payload, thus header information is leaked, 
    similarly to SRTP.

-   The use of stream ciphers as AES CM and no integrity protection allows an attacker to purposefully attack the 
    content of the encrypted RTP payload by switching individual bits. 

-   The usage of selective encryption without integrity protection allows for an attacker to perform any replacements 
    of complete RTP payloads and packets it desires. 
-   The payload format makes the receiver vulnerable to denial of service attacks that inserts RTP packets into the 
    stream, that the receiver then interprets as being encrypted thus wasting computational resources. To prevent this 
    attack, authentication needs to be used.

Interoperability considerations:

Published specification:

3GPP TS 26.234, Release 6. 
Open Mobile Alliance DRM Content Format V2.0

Applications which use this media type:
Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Packet-switched Streaming Service (PSS) clients and servers, which 
supports the Open Mobile Alliance's specification of Digital Rights Management version 2.0. 

Additional information:

Magic number(s): N/A
File extension(s): N/A
Macintosh File Type Code(s): N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:
	Magnus Westerlund
	magnus.westerlund&ericsson.com

Intended usage:
Common

Restrictions on usage:
	This type is only defined for transfer via RTP (RFC 3550).

Author:
3GPP TSG SA WG4

Change controller:
3GPP TSG SA


(file created 2007-04-27)