(RFC 4695 published November 2006, subtype last updated June 2011 per RFC 6295)

Media type name:

   audio

Subtype name:

   rtp-midi

Required parameters:

   rate: The RTP timestamp clock rate.  See Sections 2.1 and 6.1
   for usage details.

Optional parameters:

   Non-extensible parameters:

	  ch_anchor:    See Appendix C.2.3 for usage details.
	  ch_default:   See Appendix C.2.3 for usage details.
	  ch_never:     See Appendix C.2.3 for usage details.
	  cm_unused:    See Appendix C.1 for usage details.
	  cm_used:      See Appendix C.1 for usage details.
	  chanmask:     See Appendix C.6.4.3 for usage details.
	  cid:          See Appendix C.6.3 for usage details.
	  guardtime:    See Appendix C.4.2 for usage details.
	  inline:       See Appendix C.6.3 for usage details.
	  linerate:     See Appendix C.3 for usage details.
	  mperiod:      See Appendix C.3 for usage details.
	  multimode:    See Appendix C.6.1 for usage details.
	  musicport:    See Appendix C.5 for usage details.
	  octpos:       See Appendix C.3 for usage details.
	  rinit:        See Appendix C.6.3 for usage details.
	  rtp_maxptime: See Appendix C.4.1 for usage details.
	  rtp_ptime:    See Appendix C.4.1 for usage details.
	  smf_cid:      See Appendix C.6.4.2 for usage details.
	  smf_inline:   See Appendix C.6.4.2 for usage details.
	  smf_url:      See Appendix C.6.4.2 for usage details.
	  tsmode:       See Appendix C.3 for usage details.
	  url:          See Appendix C.6.3 for usage details.

   Extensible parameters:

	  j_sec:        See Appendix C.2.1 for usage details.  See
					Section 11.1.1 for repository details.
	  j_update:     See Appendix C.2.2 for usage details.  See
					Section 11.1.1 for repository details.
	  render:       See Appendix C.6 for usage details.  See
					Section 11.1.1 for repository details.
	  subrender:    See Appendix C.6.2 for usage details.  See
					Section 11.1.1 for repository details.
	  smf_info:     See Appendix C.6.4.1 for usage details.  See
					Section 11.1.1 for repository details.

Encoding considerations:

   The format for this type is framed and binary.

Restrictions on usage:

   This type is only defined for real-time transfers of MIDI
   streams via RTP.  Stored-file semantics for rtp-midi may
   be defined in the future.

Security considerations:

   See Section 9 of RFC 6295.

Interoperability considerations:

   None.

Published specification:

   This memo and [MIDI] serve as the normative specification.  In
   addition, references [NMP], [GRAME], and [RFC4696] provide
   non-normative implementation guidance.

Applications that use this media type:

   Audio content-creation hardware, such as MIDI controller piano
   keyboards and MIDI audio synthesizers.  Audio content-creation
   software, such as music sequencers, digital audio workstations,
   and soft synthesizers.  Computer operating systems, for network
   support of MIDI Application Programmer Interfaces.  Content
   distribution servers and terminals may use this media type for
   low bitrate music coding.

Additional information:

   None.

Person & email address to contact for further information:

   John Lazzaro <lazzaro&cs.berkeley.edu>

Intended usage:

   COMMON.

Author:

   John Lazzaro <lazzaro&cs.berkeley.edu>

Change controller:

   IETF Audio/Video Transport Working Group delegated
   from the IESG.
