(registered by RFC3558)

Media Type Name:           audio

Media Subtype Name:        SMV

Required Parameter:        none

Optional parameters:
The following parameters apply to RTP transfer only.

   ptime:    Defined as usual for RTP audio (see RFC 2327).

   maxptime: The maximum amount of media which can be encapsulated
      in each packet, expressed as time in milliseconds.  The time
      SHALL be calculated as the sum of the time the media present
      in the packet represents.  The time SHOULD be a multiple of the
      duration of a single codec data frame (20 msec).  If not
      signaled, the default maxptime value SHALL be 200
      milliseconds.

   maxinterleave: Maximum number for interleaving length (field LLL
      in the Interleaving Octet).  The interleaving lengths used in
      the entire session MUST NOT exceed this maximum value.  If not
      signaled, the maxinterleave length SHALL be 5.

Encoding considerations:
   This type is defined for transfer of SMV-encoded data via RTP
   using the Interleaved/Bundled packet format specified in Section
   4.1, 6, and 7 of RFC 3558.  It is also defined for other transfer
   methods using the storage format specified in Section 11 of RFC
   3558.

Security considerations:
   See Section 14 "Security Considerations" of RFC 3558.

Public specification:
   The SMV vocoder is specified in 3GPP2 C.S0030-0 v2.0.
   Transfer methods are specified in RFC 3558.

Additional information:
   The following information applies to storage format only.

   Magic number: #!SMV\n (see Section 11 of RFC 3558)
   File extensions: smv, SMV
   Macintosh file type code: none
   Object identifier or OID: none

Intended usage:
   COMMON.  It is expected that many VoIP applications (as well as
   mobile applications) will use this type.

Person & email address to contact for further information:
   Adam Li
   adamli&icsl.ucla.edu

Author/Change controller:
   Adam Li
   adamli&icsl.ucla.edu
   IETF Audio/Video Transport Working Group