(registered by RFC5574)

Media type name: audio

Media subtype name: speex

Required parameters:

   rate:  RTP timestamp clock rate, which is equal to the sampling
      rate in Hz.  The sampling rate MUST be either 8000, 16000, or
      32000.

Optional parameters:

   ptime:  SHOULD be a multiple of 20 msec [RFC4566]

   maxptime:  SHOULD be a multiple of 20 msec [RFC4566]

   vbr:  variable bit-rate - either 'on', 'off', or 'vad' (defaults
      to 'off').  If 'on', variable bit-rate is enabled.  If 'off',
      disabled.  If set to 'vad', then constant bit-rate is used, but
      silence will be encoded with special short frames to indicate a
      lack of voice for that period.  This parameter is a preference
      to the encoder.

   cng:  comfort noise generation - either 'on' or 'off' (defaults to
      'off').  If 'off', then silence frames will be silent; if 'on',
      then those frames will be filled with comfort noise.  This
      parameter is a preference to the encoder.

   mode:  Comma-separated list of supported Speex decoding modes, in
      order of preference.  The first is the most preferred and the
      remaining is in decreasing order of preference.  The valid
      modes are different for narrowband and wideband, and are
      defined as follows:

      *  {1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,any} for narrowband

      *  {0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,any} for wideband and ultra-wideband

      The 'mode' parameters may contain multiple values.  In this
      case, the remote party SHOULD configure its encoder using the
      first supported mode provided.  When 'any' is used, the offerer
      indicates that it supports all decoding modes.  The 'mode'
      parameter value MUST always be quoted.  If the 'mode' parameter
      is not provided, the mode value is considered to be equivalent
      to 'mode="3,any"' in narrowband and 'mode="8,any"' in wideband
      and ultra-wideband.  Note that each Speex frame does contain
      the mode (or bit-rate) that should be used to decode it.  Thus,
      an application MUST be able to decode any Speex frame unless
      the SDP clearly specifies that some modes are not supported
      (e.g., by not including 'mode="any"').  Indicating support for
      a given set of decoding modes also implies that the
      implementation support the same encoding modes.

Encoding considerations:

   This media type is framed and binary, see Section 4.8 in
   [RFC4288].

Security considerations: See Section 6.

Interoperability considerations:

   None.

Published specification:

   RFC 5574.

Applications that use this media type:

   Audio streaming and conferencing applications.

Additional information: none.

Person and e-mail address to contact for further information:

   Alfred E. Heggestad: aeh&db.org

Intended usage: COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

   This media type depends on RTP framing, and hence is only defined
   for transfer via RTP [RFC3550].  Transport within other framing
   protocols is not defined at this time.

Author: Alfred E. Heggestad

Change controller:

   IETF Audio/Video Transport working group delegated from the IESG.
