
   A.    Submission Date:

	6/11/08
	 update by expert 2008-12-24

   B.   Submission Type:
        [x] New RRTYPE
        [ ] Modification to existing RRTYPE

   C.   Contact Information for submitter:
               Name: Jim Reid
               Email Address: jim at telnic.org
               International telephone number: +44 20 7467 6474
               Other contact handles: none
        (Note: This information will be publicly posted)


   D.   Motivation for the new RRTYPE application?

   	There is a need to provide a mechanism in the DNS to publish
   	descriptive information about the status of the zone,
   	particularly for zones holding real-time contact data. At
   	present a variety of ad-hoc schemes and conventions are
   	used. These approaches are confusing and impractical since an
   	arbitrary DNS client needs a priori knowledge of which of
   	these schemes, if any, has been used by a zone administrator.
	Assigning a new RRtype for a resource record to hold this
   	information will provide a simple, standardised way of
   	publishing and retrieving zone status information.


   E.   Description of the proposed RR type.

   	The proposed RRtype is essentially identical to a TXT record:
   	the zone status information contained as free text in the
   	RDATA. Further details about the record format and its
   	potential applications is given in draft-reid-dnsext-zs-01.txt.
		[Note from experts: draft was last description as of 
		  RRTYPE approval.]

   F.   What existing RRTYPE or RRTYPEs come closest to filling that
        need and why are they unsatisfactory?

	The TXT record is the closest RRtype to the one proposed
	here. However TXT records are already used in many zones for
	a variety of purposes. This makes it awkward and impractical
	to differentiate a TXT record containing zone status
	information from other TXT records that may exist for a
	domain name. Allocating a new, dedicated RRtype for zone
	status is the cleanest way to deal with this issue. It would
	also prevent further mission creep by overloading the already
	overloaded TXT RRtype.


   G.   What mnemonic is requested for the new RRTYPE (optional)?
        Note: this can be left blank and the mnemonic decided after the
        template is accepted.

	NINFO	
	    [Note from experts: originally requested as ZS, but NINFO
	     approved.]

   H.   Does the requested RRTYPE make use of any existing IANA
        Registry or require the creation of a new IANA Sub-registry and
        in DNS Parameters?

	No.

   I.   Does the proposal require/expect any changes in DNS
        servers/resolvers that prevent the new type from being
        processed as an unknown RRTYPE (see [RFC3597])?

	No.

   J.   Comments:

   	None.

