(template updated by RFC6532; previous version included in RFC5335)

Type name:  message

Subtype name:  global

Required parameters:  none

Optional parameters:  none

Encoding considerations:  Any content-transfer-encoding is permitted.
   The 8-bit or binary content-transfer-encodings are recommended
   where permitted.

Security considerations:  See Section 4.

Interoperability considerations:  This media type provides
   functionality similar to the message/rfc822 content type for email
   messages with internationalized email headers.  When there is a
   need to embed or return such content in another message, there is
   generally an option to use this media type and leave the content
   unchanged or down-convert the content to message/rfc822.  Each of
   these choices will interoperate with the installed base, but with
   different properties.  Systems unaware of internationalized
   headers will typically treat a message/global body part as an
   unknown attachment, while they will understand the structure of a
   message/rfc822.  However, systems that understand message/global
   will provide functionality superior to the result of a down-
   conversion to message/rfc822.  The most interoperable choice
   depends on the deployed software.

Published specification:  RFC 6532

Applications that use this media type:  SMTP servers and email
   clients that support multipart/report generation or parsing.
   Email clients that forward messages with internationalized headers
   as attachments.

Additional information:

   Magic number(s):  none

   File extension(s):  The extension ".u8msg" is suggested.

   Macintosh file type code(s):  A uniform type identifier (UTI) of
      "public.utf8-email-message" is suggested.  This conforms to
      "public.message" and "public.composite-content", but does not
      necessarily conform to "public.utf8-plain-text".

Person & email address to contact for further information:  See the
   Authors' Addresses section of this document.

Intended usage:  COMMON

Restrictions on usage:  This is a structured media type that embeds
   other MIME media types.  An 8-bit or binary content-transfer-
   encoding SHOULD be used unless this media type is sent over a
   7-bit-only transport.

Author:  See the Authors' Addresses section of this document.

Change controller:  IETF Standards Process