(template updated by RFC6533; previous version included in RFC5337)

Type name:  message

Subtype name:  global-headers

Required parameters:  none

Optional parameters:  none

Encoding considerations:  This media type contains Internationalized
   Email Headers [RFC6532] with no message body.  Whenever possible,
   the 8-bit content transfer encoding SHOULD be used.  When this
   media type passes through a 7-bit-only SMTP infrastructure, it MAY
   be encoded with the base64 or quoted-printable content transfer
   encoding.

Security considerations:  See Section 7.

Interoperability considerations:  It is important that this media
   type is not converted to a charset other than UTF-8.  As a result,
   implementations MUST NOT include a charset parameter with this
   media type.  Although it might be possible to down-convert this
   media type to the text/rfc822-header media type, such conversion
   is discouraged as it loses information.

Published specification:  RFC 6533

Applications that use this media type:  SMTPUTF8 servers and email
   clients that support multipart/report generation or parsing.

Additional information:

   Magic number(s):  none

   File extension(s):  In the event this is saved to a file, the
      extension ".u8hdr" is suggested.

   Macintosh file type code(s):  The 'TEXT' type code is suggested as
      files of this type are typically used for diagnostic purposes
      and suitable for analysis in a UTF-8-aware text editor.  A
      uniform type identifier (UTI) of
      "public.utf8-email-message-header" is suggested.  This type
      conforms to "public.utf8-plain-text" and "public.plain-text".

Person & email address to contact for further information:  See the
   Authors' Addresses section of this document.

Intended usage:  COMMON

Restrictions on usage:  This media type contains textual data in the
   UTF-8 charset.  It typically contains octets with the 8th bit set.
   As a result, a transfer encoding is required when a 7-bit
   transport is used.

Author:  See the Authors' Addresses section of this document.

Change controller:  IETF Standards Process