(per RFC6190)

Media Type name:     video

Media subtype name:  H264-SVC

Required parameters: none

OPTIONAL parameters:

   In the following definitions of parameters, "the stream" or "the
   NAL unit stream" refers to all NAL units conveyed in the current
   RTP session in SST, and all NAL units conveyed in the current RTP
   session and all NAL units conveyed in other RTP sessions that the
   current RTP session depends on in MST.

   profile-level-id:
      A base16 [RFC4648] (hexadecimal) representation of the
      following three bytes in the sequence parameter set or subset
      sequence parameter set NAL unit specified in [H.264]: 1)
      profile_idc; 2) a byte herein referred to as profile-iop,
      composed of the values of constraint_set0_flag,
      constraint_set1_flag, constraint_set2_flag,
      constraint_set3_flag, constraint_set4_flag,
      constraint_set5_flag, and reserved_zero_2bits, in bit-
      significance order, starting from the most-significant bit, and
      3) level_idc.  Note that reserved_zero_2bits is required to be
      equal to 0 in [H.264], but other values for it may be specified
      in the future by ITU-T or ISO/IEC.

      The profile-level-id parameter indicates the default sub-
      profile, i.e., the subset of coding tools that may have been
      used to generate the stream or that the receiver supports, and
      the default level of the stream or the one that the receiver
      supports.

      The default sub-profile is indicated collectively by the
      profile_idc byte and some fields in the profile-iop byte.
      Depending on the values of the fields in the profile-iop byte,
      the default sub-profile may be the same set of coding tools
      supported by one profile, or a common subset of coding tools of
      multiple profiles, as specified in Subsection G.7.4.2.1.1 of
      [H.264].  The default level is indicated by the level_idc byte,
      and, when profile_idc is equal to 66, 77, or 88 (the Baseline,
      Main, or Extended profile) and level_idc is equal to 11,
      additionally by bit 4 (constraint_set3_flag) of the profile-iop
      byte.  When profile_idc is equal to 66, 77, or 88 (the
      Baseline, Main, or Extended profile) and level_idc is equal to
      11, and bit 4 (constraint_set3_flag) of the profile-iop byte is
      equal to 1, the default level is Level 1b.

      Table 13 lists all profiles defined in Annexes A and G of
      [H.264] and, for each of the profiles, the possible
      combinations of profile_idc and profile-iop that represent the
      same sub-profile.

      Table 13.  Combinations of profile_idc and profile-iop
      representing the same sub-profile corresponding to the full set
      of coding tools supported by one profile.  In the following, x
      may be either 0 or 1, while the profile names are indicated as
      follows.  CB: Constrained Baseline profile, B: Baseline
      profile, M: Main profile, E: Extended profile, H: High profile,
      H10: High 10 profile, H42: High 4:2:2 profile, H44: High 4:4:4
      Predictive profile, H10I: High 10 Intra profile, H42I: High
      4:2:2 Intra profile, H44I: High 4:4:4 Intra profile, C44I:
      CAVLC 4:4:4 Intra profile, SB: Scalable Baseline profile, SH:
      Scalable High profile, and SHI: Scalable High Intra profile.

      Profile     profile_idc             profile-iop
                      (hexadecimal)           (binary)

          CB          42 (B)                  x1xx0000
            same as:  4D (M)                  1xxx0000
            same as:  58 (E)                  11xx0000
          B           42 (B)                  x0xx0000
            same as:  58 (E)                  10xx0000
          M           4D (M)                  0x0x0000
          E           58                      00xx0000
          H           64                      00000000
          H10         6E                      00000000
          H42         7A                      00000000
          H44         F4                      00000000
          H10I        6E                      00010000
          H42I        7A                      00010000
          H44I        F4                      00010000
          C44I        2C                      00010000
          SB          53                      x0000000
          SH          56                      0x000000
          SHI         56                      0x010000

      For example, in the table above, profile_idc equal to 58
      (Extended) with profile-iop equal to 11xx0000 indicates the
      same sub-profile corresponding to profile_idc equal to 42
      (Baseline) with profile-iop equal to x1xx0000.  Note that other
      combinations of profile_idc and profile-iop (not listed in
      Table 13) may represent a sub-profile equivalent to the common
      subset of coding tools for more than one profile.  Note also
      that a decoder conforming to a certain profile may be able to
      decode bitstreams conforming to other profiles.

      If profile-level-id is used to indicate stream properties, it
      indicates that, to decode the stream, the minimum subset of
      coding tools a decoder has to support is the default sub-
      profile, and the lowest level the decoder has to support is the
      default level.

      If the profile-level-id parameter is used for capability
      exchange or session setup, it indicates the subset of coding
      tools, which is equal to the default sub-profile, that the
      codec supports for both receiving and sending.  If max-recv-
      level is not present, the default level from profile-level-id
      indicates the highest level the codec wishes to support.  If
      max-recv-level is present, it indicates the highest level the
      codec supports for receiving.  For either receiving or sending,
      all levels that are lower than the highest level supported MUST
      also be supported.

         Informative note: Capability exchange and session setup
         procedures should provide means to list the capabilities for
         each supported sub-profile separately.  For example, the
         one-of-N codec selection procedure of the SDP Offer/Answer
         model can be used (Section 10.2 of [RFC3264]).  The one-of-N
         codec selection procedure may also be used to provide
         different combinations of profile_idc and profile-iop that
         represent the same sub-profile.  When there are many
         different combinations of profile_idc and profile-iop that
         represent the same sub-profile, using the one-of-N codec
         selection procedure may result in a fairly large SDP
         message.  Therefore, a receiver should understand the
         different equivalent combinations of profile_idc and
         profile-iop that represent the same sub-profile, and be
         ready to accept an offer using any of the equivalent
         combinations.

      If no profile-level-id is present, the Baseline Profile without
      additional constraints at Level 1 MUST be implied.

   max-recv-level:
      This parameter MAY be used to indicate the highest level a
      receiver supports when the highest level is higher than the
      default level (the level indicated by profile-level-id).  The
      value of max-recv-level is a base16 (hexadecimal)
      representation of the two bytes after the syntax element
      profile_idc in the sequence parameter set NAL unit specified in
      [H.264]: profile-iop (as defined above) and level_idc.  If (the
      level_idc byte of max-recv-level is equal to 11 and bit 4 of
      the profile-iop byte of max-recv-level is equal to 1) or (the
      level_idc byte of max-recv-level is equal to 9 and bit 4 of the
      profile-iop byte of max-recv-level is equal to 0), the highest
      level the receiver supports is Level 1b.  Otherwise, the
      highest level the receiver supports is equal to the level_idc
      byte of max-recv-level divided by 10.

      max-recv-level MUST NOT be present if the highest level the
      receiver supports is not higher than the default level.

   max-recv-base-level:
      This parameter MAY be used to indicate the highest level a
      receiver supports for the base layer when negotiating an SVC
      stream.  The value of max-recv-base-level is a base16
      (hexadecimal) representation of the two bytes after the syntax
      element profile_idc in the sequence parameter set NAL unit
      specified in [H.264]: profile-iop (as defined above) and
      level_idc.  If (the level_idc byte of max-recv-level is equal
      to 11 and bit 4 of the profile-iop byte of max-recv-level is
      equal to 1) or (the level_idc byte of max-recv-level is equal
      to 9 and bit 4 of the profile-iop byte of max-recv-level is
      equal to 0), the highest level the receiver supports for the
      base layer is Level 1b. Otherwise, the highest level the
      receiver supports for the base layer is equal to the level_idc
      byte of max-recv-level divided by 10.

   max-mbps, max-fs, max-cpb, max-dpb, and max-br:
      The common properties of these parameters are specified in
      [RFC6184].

   max-mbps: This parameter is as specified in [RFC6184].

   max-fs: This parameter is as specified in [RFC6184].

   max-cpb: The value of max-cpb is an integer indicating the maximum
      coded picture buffer size in units of 1000 bits for the VCL HRD
      parameters and in units of 1200 bits for the NAL HRD
      parameters.  Note that this parameter does not use units of
      cpbBrVclFactor and cpbBrNALFactor (see Table A-1 of [H.264]).
      The max-cpb parameter signals that the receiver has more memory
      than the minimum amount of coded picture buffer memory required
      by the signaled highest level conveyed in the value of the
      profile-level-id parameter or the max-recv-level parameter.
      When max-cpb is signaled, the receiver MUST be able to decode
      NAL unit streams that conform to the signaled highest level,
      with the exception that the MaxCPB value in Table A-1 of
      [H.264] for the signaled highest level is replaced with the
      value of max-cpb (after taking cpbBrVclFactor and
      cpbBrNALFactor into consideration when needed).  The value of
      max-cpb (after taking cpbBrVclFactor and cpbBrNALFactor into
      consideration when needed) MUST be greater than or equal to the
      value of MaxCPB given in Table A-1 of [H.264] for the highest
      level.  Senders MAY use this knowledge to construct coded video
      streams with greater variation of bitrate than can be achieved
      with the MaxCPB value in Table A-1 of [H.264].

         Informative note: The coded picture buffer is used in the
         Hypothetical Reference Decoder (HRD, Annex C) of [H.264].
         The use of the HRD is recommended in SVC encoders to verify
         that the produced bitstream conforms to the standard and to
         control the output bitrate.  Thus, the coded picture buffer
         is conceptually independent of any other potential buffers
         in the receiver, including de-interleaving, re-multiplexing,
         and de-jitter buffers.  The coded picture buffer need not be
         implemented in decoders as specified in Annex C of [H.264];
         standard-compliant decoders can have any buffering
         arrangements provided that they can decode standard-
         compliant bitstreams.  Thus, in practice, the input buffer
         for video decoder can be integrated with the de-
         interleaving, re-multiplexing, and de-jitter buffers of the
         receiver.

   max-dpb: This parameter is as specified in [RFC6184].

   max-br: The value of max-br is an integer indicating the maximum
      video bitrate in units of 1000 bits per second for the VCL HRD
      parameters and in units of 1200 bits per second for the NAL HRD
      parameters.  Note that this parameter does not use units of
      cpbBrVclFactor and cpbBrNALFactor (see Table A-1 of [H.264]).

      The max-br parameter signals that the video decoder of the
      receiver is capable of decoding video at a higher bitrate than
      is required by the signaled highest level conveyed in the value
      of the profile-level-id parameter or the max-recv-level
      parameter.

      When max-br is signaled, the video codec of the receiver MUST
      be able to decode NAL unit streams that conform to the signaled
      highest level, with the following exceptions in the limits
      specified by the highest level:

      o  The value of max-br (after taking cpbBrVclFactor and
         cpbBrNALFactor into consideration when needed) replaces the
         MaxBR value in Table A-1 of [H.264] for the highest level.

      o  When the max-cpb parameter is not present, the result of the
         following formula replaces the value of MaxCPB in Table A-1
         of [H.264]: (MaxCPB of the signaled level) * max-br / (MaxBR
         of the signaled highest level).

      For example, if a receiver signals capability for Main profile
      Level 1.2 with max-br equal to 1550, this indicates a maximum
      video bitrate of 1550 kbits/sec for VCL HRD parameters, a
      maximum video bitrate of 1860 kbits/sec for NAL HRD parameters,
      and a CPB size of 4036458 bits (1550000 / 384000 * 1000 *
      1000).

      The value of max-br (after taking cpbBrVclFactor and
      cpbBrNALFactor into consideration when needed) MUST be greater
      than or equal to the value MaxBR given in Table A-1 of [H.264]
      for the signaled highest level.

      Senders MAY use this knowledge to send higher-bitrate video as
      allowed in the level definition of SVC, to achieve improved
      video quality.

         Informative note: This parameter was added primarily to
         complement a similar codepoint in the ITU-T Recommendation
         H.245, so as to facilitate signaling gateway designs.  No
         assumption can be made from the value of this parameter that
         the network is capable of handling such bitrates at any
         given time.  In particular, no conclusion can be drawn that
         the signaled bitrate is possible under congestion control
         constraints.

   redundant-pic-cap:
      This parameter is as specified in [RFC6184].

   sprop-parameter-sets:
      This parameter MAY be used to convey any sequence parameter
      set, subset sequence parameter set, and picture parameter set
      NAL units (herein referred to as the initial parameter set NAL
      units) that can be placed in the NAL unit stream to precede any
      other NAL units in decoding order and that are associated with
      the default level of profile-level-id.  The parameter MUST NOT
      be used to indicate codec capability in any capability exchange
      procedure.  The value of the parameter is a comma (',')
      separated list of base64 [RFC4648] representations of the
      parameter set NAL units as specified in Sections 7.3.2.1,
      7.3.2.2, and G.7.3.2.1 of [H.264].  Note that the number of
      bytes in a parameter set NAL unit is typically less than 10,
      but a picture parameter set NAL unit can contain several
      hundreds of bytes.

         Informative note: When several payload types are offered in
         the SDP Offer/Answer model, each with its own sprop-
         parameter-sets parameter, then the receiver cannot assume
         that those parameter sets do not use conflicting storage
         locations (i.e., identical values of parameter set
         identifiers).  Therefore, a receiver should buffer all
         sprop-parameter-sets and make them available to the decoder
         instance that decodes a certain payload type.

   sprop-level-parameter-sets:
      This parameter MAY be used to convey any sequence, subset
      sequence, and picture parameter set NAL units (herein referred
      to as the initial parameter set NAL units) that can be placed
      in the NAL unit stream to precede any other NAL units in
      decoding order and that are associated with one or more levels
      different than the default level of profile-level-id.  The
      parameter MUST NOT be used to indicate codec capability in any
      capability exchange procedure.

      The sprop-level-parameter-sets parameter contains parameter
      sets for one or more levels that are different than the default
      level.  All parameter sets targeted for use when one level of
      the default sub-profile is accepted by a receiver are clustered
      and prefixed with a three-byte field that has the same syntax
      as profile-level-id.  This enables the receiver to install the
      parameter sets for the accepted level and discard the rest.
      The three-byte field is named PLId, and all parameter sets
      associated with one level are named PSL, which has the same
      syntax as sprop-parameter-sets.  Parameter sets for each level
      are represented in the form of PLId:PSL, i.e., PLId followed by
      a colon (':') and the base64 [RFC4648] representation of the
      initial parameter set NAL units for the level.  Each pair of
      PLId:PSL is also separated by a colon.  Note that a PSL can
      contain multiple parameter sets for that level, separated with
      commas (',').

      The subset of coding tools indicated by each PLId field MUST be
      equal to the default sub-profile, and the level indicated by
      each PLId field MUST be different than the default level.

         Informative note: This parameter allows for efficient level
         downgrade or upgrade in SDP Offer/Answer and out-of-band
         transport of parameter sets, simultaneously.

   in-band-parameter-sets:
      This parameter MAY be used to indicate a receiver capability.
      The value MAY be equal to either 0 or 1.  The value 1 indicates
      that the receiver discards out-of-band parameter sets in sprop-
      parameter-sets and sprop-level-parameter-sets, therefore the
      sender MUST transmit all parameter sets in-band.  The value 0
      indicates that the receiver utilizes out-of-band parameter sets
      included in sprop-parameter-sets and/or sprop-level-parameter-
      sets.  However, in this case, the sender MAY still choose to
      send parameter sets in-band.  When the parameter is not
      present, this receiver capability is not specified, and
      therefore the sender MAY send out-of-band parameter sets only,
      or it MAY send in-band-parameter-sets only, or it MAY send
      both.

   packetization-mode:
      This parameter is as specified in [RFC6184].  When the mst-mode
      parameter is present, the value of this parameter is
      additionally constrained as follows.  If mst-mode is equal to
      "NI-T", "NI-C", or "NI-TC", packetization-mode MUST NOT be
      equal to 2.  Otherwise, (mst-mode is equal to "I-C"),
      packetization-mode MUST be equal to 2.

   sprop-interleaving-depth:
      This parameter is as specified in [RFC6184].

   sprop-deint-buf-req:
      This parameter is as specified in [RFC6184].

   deint-buf-cap:
      This parameter is as specified in [RFC6184].

   sprop-init-buf-time:
      This parameter is as specified in [RFC6184].

   sprop-max-don-diff:
      This parameter is as specified in [RFC6184].

   max-rcmd-nalu-size:
      This parameter is as specified in [RFC6184].

   mst-mode:
      This parameter MAY be used to signal the properties of a NAL
      unit stream or the capabilities of a receiver implementation.
      If this parameter is present, multi-session transmission MUST
      be used.  Otherwise (this parameter is not present), single-
      session transmission MUST be used.  When this parameter is
      present, the following applies.  When the value of mst-mode is
      equal to "NI-T", the NI-T mode MUST be used.  When the value of
      mst-mode is equal to "NI-C", the NI-C mode MUST be used.  When
      the value of mst-mode is equal to "NI-TC", the NI-TC mode MUST
      be used.  When the value of mst-mode is equal to "I-C", the I-C
      mode MUST be used.  The value of mst-mode MUST have one of the
      following tokens: "NI-T", "NI-C", "NI-TC", or "I-C".

      All RTP sessions in an MST MUST have the same value of mst-
      mode.

   sprop-mst-csdon-always-present:
      This parameter MUST NOT be present when mst-mode is not present
      or the value of mst-mode is equal to "NI-T" or "I-C".  This
      parameter signals the properties of the NAL unit stream.  When
      sprop-mst-csdon-always-present is present and the value is
      equal to 1, packetization-mode MUST be equal to 1, and all the
      RTP packets carrying the NAL unit stream MUST be STAP-A packets
      containing a PACSI NAL unit that further contains the DONC
      field or NI-MTAP packets with the J field equal to 1.  When
      sprop-mst-csdon-always-present is present and the value is
      equal to 1, the CS-DON value of any particular NAL unit can be
      derived solely according to information in the packet
      containing the NAL unit.

      When sprop-mst-csdon-always-present is present in the current
      RTP session, it MUST be present also in all the RTP sessions
      the current RTP session depends on and the value of sprop-mst-
      csdon-always-present is identical for the current RTP session
      and all the RTP sessions on which the current RTP session
      depends.

   sprop-mst-remux-buf-size:
      This parameter MUST NOT be present when mst-mode is not present
      or the value of mst-mode is equal to "NI-T".  This parameter
      MUST be present when mst-mode is present and the value of mst-
      mode is equal to "NI-C", "NI-TC", or "I-C".

      This parameter signals the properties of the NAL unit stream.
      It MUST be set to a value one less than the minimum re-
      multiplexing buffer size (in NAL units), so that it is
      guaranteed that receivers can reconstruct NAL unit decoding
      order as specified in Subsection 6.2.2.

      The value of sprop-mst-remux-buf-size MUST be an integer in the
      range of 0 to 32767, inclusive.

   sprop-remux-buf-req:
      This parameter MUST NOT be present when mst-mode is not present
      or the value of mst-mode is equal to "NI-T".  It MUST be
      present when mst-mode is present and the value of mst-mode is
      equal to "NI-C", "NI-TC", or "I-C".

      sprop-remux-buf-req signals the required size of the re-
      multiplexing buffer for the NAL unit stream.  It is guaranteed
      that receivers can recover the decoding order of the received
      NAL units from the current RTP session and the RTP sessions the
      current RTP session depends on as specified in Section 6.2.2,
      when the re-multiplexing buffer size is of at least the value
      of sprop-remux-buf-req in units of bytes.

      The value of sprop-remux-buf-req MUST be an integer in the
      range of 0 to 4294967295, inclusive.

   remux-buf-cap:
      This parameter MUST NOT be present when mst-mode is not present
      or the value of mst-mode is equal to "NI-T".  This parameter
      MAY be used to signal the capabilities of a receiver
      implementation and indicates the amount of re-multiplexing
      buffer space in units of bytes that the receiver has available
      for recovering the NAL unit decoding order as specified in
      Section 6.2.2.  A receiver is able to handle any NAL unit
      stream for which the value of the sprop-remux-buf-req parameter
      is smaller than or equal to this parameter.

      If the parameter is not present, then a value of 0 MUST be used
      for remux-buf-cap.  The value of remux-buf-cap MUST be an
      integer in the range of 0 to 4294967295, inclusive.

   sprop-remux-init-buf-time:
      This parameter MAY be used to signal the properties of the NAL
      unit stream.  The parameter MUST NOT be present if mst-mode is
      not present or the value of mst-mode is equal to "NI-T".

      The parameter signals the initial buffering time that a
      receiver MUST wait before starting to recover the NAL unit
      decoding order as specified in Section 6.2.2 of this memo.

      The parameter is coded as a non-negative base10 integer
      representation in clock ticks of a 90-kHz clock.  If the
      parameter is not present, then no initial buffering time value
      is defined.  Otherwise, the value of sprop-remux-init-buf-time
      MUST be an integer in the range of 0 to 4294967295, inclusive.

   sprop-mst-max-don-diff:
      This parameter MAY be used to signal the properties of the NAL
      unit stream.  It MUST NOT be used to signal transmitter or
      receiver or codec capabilities.  The parameter MUST NOT be
      present if mst-mode is not present or the value of mst-mode is
      equal to "NI-T".  sprop-mst-max-don-diff is an integer in the
      range of 0 to 32767, inclusive.  If sprop-mst-max-don-diff is
      not present, the value of the parameter is unspecified.  sprop-
      mst-max-don-diff is calculated same as sprop-max-don-diff as
      specified in [RFC6184], with decoding order number being
      replaced by cross-session decoding order number.

   sprop-scalability-info:
      This parameter MAY be used to convey the NAL unit containing
      the scalability information SEI message as specified in Annex G
      of [H.264].  This parameter MAY be used to signal the contained
      layers of an SVC bitstream.  The parameter MUST NOT be used to
      indicate codec capability in any capability exchange procedure.
      The value of the parameter is the base64 [RFC4648]
      representation of the NAL unit containing the scalability
      information SEI message.  If present, the NAL unit MUST contain
      only one SEI message that is a scalability information SEI
      message.

      This parameter MAY be used in an offering or declarative SDP
      message to indicate what layers (operation points) can be
      provided.  A receiver MAY indicate its choice of one layer
      using the optional media type parameter scalable-layer-id.

   scalable-layer-id:
      This parameter MAY be used to signal a receiver's choice of the
      offers or declared operation points or layers using sprop-
      scalability-info or sprop-operation-point-info.  The value of
      scalable-layer-id is a base16 representation of the layer_id[ i
      ] syntax element in the scalability information SEI message as
      specified in Annex G of [H.264] or layer-ID contained in sprop-
      operation-point-info.

   sprop-operation-point-info:
      This parameter MAY be used to describe the operation points of
      an RTP session.  The value of this parameter consists of a
      comma-separated list of operation-point-description vectors.
      The values given by the operation-point-description vectors are
      the same as, or are derived from, the values that would be
      given for a scalable layer in the scalability information SEI
      message as specified in Annex G of [H.264], where the term
      scalable layer in the scalability information SEI message
      refers to all NAL units associated with the same values of
      temporal_id, dependency_id, and quality_id.  In this memo, such
      a set of NAL units is called an operation point.

      Each operation-point-description vector has ten elements,
      provided as a comma-separated list of values as defined below.
      The first value of the operation-point-description vector is
      preceded by a '<', and the last value of the operation-point-
      description vector is followed by a '>'.  If the sprop-
      operation-point-info is followed by exactly one operation-
      point-description vector, this describes the highest operation
      point contained in the RTP session.  If there are two or more
      operation-point-description vectors, the first describes the
      lowest and the last describes the highest operation point
      contained in the RTP session.

      The values given by the operation-point-description vector are
      as follows, in the order listed:

       - layer-ID: This value specifies the layer identifier of the
         operation point, which is identical to the layer_id that
         would be indicated (for the same values of dependency_id,
         quality_id, and temporal_id) in the scalability information
         SEI message.  This field MAY be empty, indicating that the
         value is unspecified.  When there are multiple operation-
         point-description vectors with layer-ID, the values of
         layer-ID do not need to be consecutive.

       - temporal-ID: This value specifies the temporal_id of the
         operation point.  This field MUST NOT be empty.

       - dependency-ID: This values specifies the dependency_id of
         the operation point.  This field MUST NOT be empty.

       - quality-ID: This values specifies the quality_id of the
         operation point.  This field MUST NOT be empty.

       - profile-level-ID: This value specifies the profile-level-idc
         of the operation point in the base16 format.  The default
         sub-profile or default level indicated by the parameter
         profile-level-ID in the sprop-operation-point-info vector
         SHALL be equal to or lower than the default sub-profile or
         default level indicated by profile-level-id, which may be
         either present or the default value is taken.  This field
         MAY be empty, indicating that the value is unspecified.

       - avg-framerate: This value specifies the average frame rate
         of the operation point.  This value is given as an integer
         in frames per 256 seconds.  The field MAY be empty,
         indicating that the value is unspecified.

       - width: This value specifies the width dimension in pixels of
         decoded frames for the operation point.  This parameter is
         not directly given in the scalability information SEI
         message.  This field MAY be empty, indicating that the value
         is unspecified.

       - height: This value gives the height dimension in pixels of
         decoded frames for the operation point.  This parameter is
         not directly given in the scalability information SEI.  This
         field MAY be empty, indicating that the value is
         unspecified.

       - avg-bitrate: This value specifies the average bitrate of the
         operation point.  This parameter is given as an integer in
         kbits per second over the entire stream.  Note that this
         parameter is provided in the scalability information SEI
         message in bits per second and calculated over a variable
         time window.  This field MAY be empty, indicating that the
         value is unspecified.

       - max-bitrate: This value specifies the maximum bitrate of the
         operation point.  This parameter is given as an integer in
         kbits per second and describes the maximum bitrate per each
         one-second window.  Note that this parameter is provided in
         the scalability information SEI message in bits per second
         and is calculated over a variable time window.  This field
         MAY be empty, indicating that the value is unspecified.

         Similarly to sprop-scalability-info, this parameter MAY be
         used in an offering or declarative SDP message to indicate
         what layers (operation points) can be provided.  A receiver
         MAY indicate its choice of the highest layer it wants to
         send and/or receive using the optional media type parameter
         scalable-layer-id.

   sprop-no-NAL-reordering-required:
      This parameter MAY be used to signal the properties of the NAL
      unit stream.  This parameter MUST NOT be present when mst-mode
      is not present or the value of mst-mode is not equal to "NI-T".
      The presence of this parameter indicates that no reordering of
      non-VCL or VCL NAL units is required for the decoding order
      recovery process.

   sprop-avc-ready:
      This parameter MAY be used to indicate the properties of the
      NAL unit stream.  The presence of this parameter indicates that
      the RTP session, if used in SST, or used in MST combined with
      other RTP sessions also with this parameter present, can be
      processed by a [RFC6184] receiver.  This parameter MAY be used
      with RTP sessions with media subtype H264-SVC.

   Encoding considerations:
      This media type is framed and binary; see Section 4.8 of RFC
      4288 [RFC4288].

   Security considerations:
      See Section 8 of RFC 6190.

   Published specification:
      Please refer to RFC 6190 and its Section 13.

   Additional information:
      none

   File extensions:     none

   Macintosh file type code: none

   Object identifier or OID: none

   Person & email address to contact for further information:

      Ye-Kui Wang, yekui.wang&huawei.com

   Intended usage:      COMMON

   Restrictions on usage:
      This media type depends on RTP framing, and hence is only
      defined for transfer via RTP [RFC3550].  Transport within other
      framing protocols is not defined at this time.

   Interoperability considerations:
      The media subtype name contains "SVC" to avoid potential
      conflict with RFC 3984 and its potential future replacement RTP
      payload format for H.264 non-SVC profiles.

   Applications that use this media type:
      Real-time video applications like video streaming, video
      telephony, and video conferencing.

   Author:

      Ye-Kui Wang, yekui.wang&huawei.com

   Change controller:
      IETF Audio/Video Transport working group delegated from the
      IESG.