(registered by RFC 5371, optional parameters added by RFC 5372)

Type name: video

Subtype name: jpeg2000

Required parameters:

   rate:  The RTP timestamp clock rate.  The default rate is 90000,
      but other rates MAY be specified.  Rates below 1000 Hz SHOULD
      NOT be used.

   sampling:  A list of values specifying the color space of the
      payload data.

      Acceptable values:

         RGB:  standard Red, Green, Blue color space.

         BGR:  standard Blue, Green, Red color space.

         RGBA:  standard Red, Green, Blue, Alpha color space.

         BGRA:  standard Blue, Green, Red, Alpha color space.

         YCbCr-4:4:4:  standard YCbCr color space; no subsampling.

         YCbCr-4:2:2:  standard YCbCr color space; Cb and Cr are
            subsampled horizontally by 1/2.

         YCbCr-4:2:0:  standard YCbCr color space; Cb and Cr are
            subsampled horizontally and vertically by 1/2.

         YCbCr-4:1:1:  standard YCbCr color space; Cb and Cr are
            subsampled vertically by 1/4.

         GRAYSCALE:  basically, a single component image of just
            multilevels of grey.

         EXTENSION VALUE:  Additional color samplings can be
            registered with the current listing of registered color
            samplings at: Color Sampling Registration Authority.
            Please refer to RTP Format for Uncompressed Video
            [RFC4175].

Optional parameters:

   interlace:  Interlace scanning.  If the payload is in interlace
      format, the acceptable value is "1"; otherwise, the value
      should be "0".  Each complete image forms, vertically, half the
      display.  The tp value MUST properly specify the field the
      image represents: odd(tp=1) or even(tp=2).  If this option is
      not present, the payload MUST be in progressive format and the
      tp MUST be set to 0.

   width:  A parameter describing the maximum width of the video
      stream.  This parameter MUST appear when height is present.
      Acceptable values: -- an integer value between 0 --
      4,294,967,295.

   height:  A parameter describing the maximum height of the video
      stream.  This parameter MUST appear when width is present.
      Acceptable values: -- an integer value between 0 --
      4,294,967,295.

   mhc:  Main Header Compensation.  This option is used when a sender
      and/or receiver is utilizing the Main Header Compensation
      technique as specified in this document.  Acceptable values
      when using the Main Header Compensation technique is "1";
      otherwise, it should be "0".

      This is a list of options to be included when the sender or
      receiver is utilizing the priority table option as specified in
      this document.

   pt:  Priority Table.  This option is followed by a comma-separated
      list of pre-defined priority table definitions to be used by
      sender or receiver.

      The option appearing front most in the option line is the most
      important and the next are of decreasing importance.

         Acceptable values:

         progression:  this table follows the progression ordering of
            the codestream.

         layer:  this table follows the layer ordering of the
            codestream.

         resolution:  this table follows the resolution ordering of
            the codestream.

         component:  this table follows the component ordering of the
            codestream.

         default:  this table follows the packet ordering of the
            codestream.

The receiver MUST ignore any unspecified parameters.

Encoding considerations:

   This media type is framed and binary, see Section 4.8 of
   [RFC4288].

Security considerations: See Section 9 of this document.

Interoperability considerations:

   The JPEG 2000 video stream is a sequence of JPEG 2000 still
   images.  An implementation compliant with [JPEG2000Pt_1] can
   decode and attempt to display the encoded JPEG 2000 video stream.

Published specification: ISO/IEC 15444-1 | ITU-T Rec. T.800

Applications that use this media type:

   video streaming and communication

Person and email address to contact for further information:

   Eisaburo Itakura, Satoshi Futemma, Andrew Leung
   Email: itakura&sm.sony.co.jp, satosi-f&sm.sony.co.jp,
   andrew&ualberta.net

Intended usage: COMMON

Restrictions on Usage:

   This media type depends on RTP framing, and hence is only defined
   for the transfer via RTP [RFC3550].  Transport within other
   framing protocols is not defined at the time.

Author/Change Controller:

   Author:

      Eisaburo Itakura, Satoshi Futemma, Andrew Leung
      Email: itakura&sm.sony.co.jp, satosi-f&sm.sony.co.jp,
      andrew&ualberta.net

   Change controller:

      IETF Audio/Video Transport Working Group delegated from the
      IESG.