Type name:  video

Subtype name:  jpeg2000-scl

Required parameters:  N/A

Optional parameters:

   pixel:
      Specifies the pixel format used by the video sequence.

      The parameter MUST be a URI-reference as specified in
      [RFC3986].

      If the parameter is a relative-ref as specified in [RFC3986],
      then it MUST be equal to one of the pixel formats specified in
      Table 4, and the RTP header and payload MUST conform to the
      characteristics of that pixel format.

      If the parameter is not a relative-ref, the specification of
      the pixel format is left to the application that defined the
      URI.

      If the parameter is not specified, the pixel format is
      unspecified.

   sample:
      Specifies the format of the samples in each component of the
      codestream.

      The parameter MUST be a URI-reference as specified in
      [RFC3986].

      If the parameter is a relative-ref as specified in [RFC3986],
      then it MUST be equal to one of the formats specified in
      Appendix C, and the stream MUST conform to the characteristics
      of that format.

      If the parameter is not a relative-ref, the specification of
      the sample format is left to the application that defined the
      URI.

      If the parameter is not specified, the sample format is
      unspecified.

   width:
      Maximum width in pixels of each image.  Integer between 0 and
      4,294,967,295.

      The parameter MUST be a sequence of 1 or more digits.

      If the parameter is not specified, the maximum width is
      unspecified.

   height:
      Maximum height in pixels of each image.  Integer between 0 and
      4,294,967,295.

      The parameter MUST be a sequence of 1 or more digits.

      If the parameter is not specified, the maximum height is
      unspecified.

   signal:
      Specifies the sequence of image types.

      The parameter MUST be a URI-reference as specified in
      [RFC3986].

      If the parameter is a relative-ref as specified in [RFC3986],
      then it MUST be equal to one of the signal formats specified in
      Appendix B, and the image sequence MUST conform to that signal
      format.

      If the parameter is not a relative-ref, the specification of
      the pixel format is left to the application that defined the
      URI.

      If the parameter is not specified, the stream consists of an
      arbitrary sequence of image types.

   caps:
      The parameter contains a list of sets of constraints to which
      the stream conforms, with each set of constraints identified
      using an absolute-URI defined by an application.

      The parameter MUST conform to the uri-list syntax expressed as
      follows using ABNF [RFC5234]:

         uri-list = absolute-URI *(";" absolute-URI)

      The application that defines the absolute-URI MUST ensure that
      it does not contain any ";" character and MUST associate it
      with a set of constraints to which the stream conforms.  Such
      constraints can, for example, include the maximum height and
      width of images.

      If the parameter is not specified, constraints beyond those
      specified in this document are unspecified.

   cache:
      The value of the parameter MUST be either false or true.

      If the parameter is true, the field C MAY be 0 or 1; otherwise,
      the field C MUST be 0.

      If the parameter is not specified, then the parameter is equal
      to false.

Encoding considerations:  This media type is framed and binary.  See
   Section 4.8 of [RFC6838].

Security considerations:  JPEG 2000 is a flexible image format.  As a
   result, the size of the memory structures required to process JPEG
   2000 images can vary greatly depending on the characteristics of
   the image and the encoding parameters.  For example, the JPEG 2000
   syntax allows image height and width up to 2^32 - 1 pixels, which
   is also captured in the syntax of the height and width parameters
   of this media type.  Therefore, implementations SHOULD take care
   when processing input that influences the size of memory
   structures and SHOULD fail gracefully when resource constraints
   are exceeded.

   See also Section 13.

Interoperability considerations:  The RTP stream is a sequence of
   JPEG 2000 images.  An implementation that conforms to the family
   of JPEG 2000 standards can decode and attempt to display each
   image.

Published specification:  RFC-ietf-avtcore-rtp-j2k-scl-08

Applications that use this media type:  video streaming and
   communication

Fragment identifier considerations:  N/A

Additional information:  N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:
   Pierre-Anthony Lemieux <pal&sandflow.com>

Intended usage:  COMMON

Restrictions on Usage:  This media type depends on RTP framing and
   hence is only defined for use with RTP as specified in [RFC3550].
   Transport within other framing protocols is not defined at the
   time.

Author:  Pierre-Anthony Lemieux <pal&sandflow.com>

Change controller:  IETF