(registered by RFC 3016; updated by RFC 6416, published October 2011)

Type name: video

Subtype name: MP4V-ES

Required parameters: none

Optional parameters:

   "rate": This parameter is used only for RTP transport.  It
   indicates the resolution of the timestamp field in the RTP header.
   If this parameter is not specified, its default value of 90000 (90
   kHz) is used.

   "profile-level-id": A decimal representation of MPEG-4 Visual
   Profile and Level indication value (profile_and_level_indication)
   defined in Table G-1 of [14496-2].  This parameter MAY be used in
   the capability exchange or session setup procedure to indicate the
   MPEG-4 Visual Profile and Level combination of which the MPEG-4
   Visual codec is capable.  If this parameter is not specified by
   the procedure, its default value of 1 (Simple Profile/Level 1) is
   used.

   "config": This parameter SHALL be used to indicate the
   configuration of the corresponding MPEG-4 Visual bitstream.  It
   SHALL NOT be used to indicate the codec capability in the
   capability exchange procedure.  It is a hexadecimal representation
   of an octet string that expresses the MPEG-4 Visual configuration
   information, as defined in Subclause 6.2.1 ("Start codes") of
   [14496-2].  The configuration information is mapped onto the octet
   string most significant bit (MSB) first.  The first bit of the
   configuration information SHALL be located at the MSB of the first
   octet.  The configuration information indicated by this parameter
   SHALL be the same as the configuration information in the
   corresponding MPEG-4 Visual stream, except for
   first_half_vbv_occupancy and latter_half_vbv_occupancy (if they
   exist), which may vary in the repeated configuration information
   inside an MPEG-4 Visual stream.  (See Subclause 6.2.1, "Start
   codes", of [14496-2].)

Published specification:

   The specifications for MPEG-4 Visual streams are presented in
   [14496-2].  The RTP payload format is described in [RFC6416].

Encoding considerations:

   Video bitstreams MUST be generated according to MPEG-4 Visual
   specifications [14496-2].  A video bitstream is binary data and
   MUST be encoded for non-binary transport (for email, the Base64
   encoding is sufficient).  This type is also defined for transfer
   via RTP.  The RTP packets MUST be packetized according to the
   MPEG-4 Visual RTP payload format defined in [RFC6416].

Security considerations:

   See Section 10 of [RFC6416].

Interoperability considerations:

   MPEG-4 Visual provides a large and rich set of tools for the
   coding of visual objects.  For effective implementation of the
   standard, subsets of the MPEG-4 Visual tool sets have been
   provided for use in specific applications.  These subsets, called
   'Profiles', limit the size of the tool set a decoder is required
   to implement.  In order to restrict computational complexity, one
   or more Levels are set for each Profile.  A Profile@Level
   combination allows:

   *  a codec builder to implement only the subset of the standard he
      needs, while maintaining interworking with other MPEG-4 devices
      included in the same combination, and

   *  checking whether MPEG-4 devices comply with the standard
      ('conformance testing').

   The visual stream SHALL be compliant with the MPEG-4 Visual
   Profile@Level specified by the parameter "profile-level-id".
   Interoperability between a sender and a receiver may be achieved
   by specifying the parameter "profile-level-id" or by arranging a
   capability exchange/announcement procedure for this parameter.

Applications that use this media type:

   Audio and visual streaming and conferencing tools

Additional information: none

Person and email address to contact for further information:

   See Authors' Addresses section at the end of [RFC6416].

Intended usage: COMMON

Author:

   See Authors' Addresses section at the end of [RFC6416].

Change controller:

   IETF Audio/Video Transport Payloads working group delegated from
   the IESG.
