(registered 2021-01-28, last updated 2021-01-28)

Name: Michael Faller
Email: michael.faller&gd-ms.com

Media type name: video

Media subtype name: scip

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters: N/A

Encoding considerations: binary

   This media subtype is only defined for transfer via RTP. There 
   must be no encoding/decoding (transcoding) of the video stream as 
   it traverses the network.

Security considerations: RTP packets using the payload format defined
   in this specification are subject to the security considerations 
   discussed in the RTP specification [RFC3550] and any appropriate 
   RTP profile.

   As this format transports encoded speech/audio, the main security 
   issues include confidentiality, integrity protection, and 
   authentication of the speech/audio itself. The payload format 
   itself has built-in security mechanisms.

   This payload format does not exhibit any significant 
   non-uniformity in the receiver-end computational load and thus are 
   unlikely to pose a denial-of-service threat due to the receipt of 
   pathological datagrams.

Interoperability considerations: N/A

Published specification:

   National Security Agency, SCIP-214.2, "Secure Communication 
   Interoperability Protocol (SCIP) over Real-time Transport Protocol
   (RTP)", Revision 1.1, 18 April 2014

   National Security Agency, SCIP-210, "SCIP Signaling Plan", 
   Revision 3.10, 26 October 2017

Applications which use this media: Devices that use 'scip' as a media
   subtype include VoIP desktop products, remote sensors and video 
   monitors, and any other devices which require scip-enabled secure 
   traffic transport over IP networks.

Fragment identifier considerations: none

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Additional information:

   1. Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A
   2. Magic number(s): N/A 
   3. File extension(s): N/A 
   4. Macintosh file type code: N/A 
   5. Object Identifiers: N/A

General Comments: SCIP, the Secure Communication Interoperability 
   Protocol, is an international standard for secure communication. 
   SCIP signaling messages are exchanged between end devices to 
   establish a secure traffic session. The SCIP-214.2 specification 
   is meant to standardize the encapsulation of SCIP messages within 
   the Real-Time Transport Protocol.

   SCIP is presently deployed in U.S. and NATO secure voice, video, 
   and data products operating on commercial, private, and tactical 
   networks worldwide using the scip media subtype. The scip media 
   subtype provides the means through which secure session 
   establishment signaling and secure traffic occur. The built-in 
   negotiation and flexibility provided by the SCIP standards make it
   a natural choice for many connection scenarios that require 
   encryption.

   The "scip" media subtype is used to indicate support for and 
   identify SCIP traffic, which is being transferred using RTP [3]. 
   SCIP traffic requires end-to-end bit integrity with no transcoding
   and no compression over the entire network.

   The scip information stream within the network, including the VoIP
   network, must be a transparent relay and be treated as 
   "clear-channel data", similar to that in RFC 4040 [4]. However, 
   RFC 4040 is defined for a sample rate of 8000 Hz only. It is not 
   defined for the higher sample rates required for some SCIP 
   traffic. SCIP is also similar to RFC 4040 as noted in that "No 
   encoder/decoder is needed in that case, but a unique RTP payload 
   type is necessary and a related Media subtype should be registered
   for signaling purposes." Transport of SCIP information using the 
   scip payload type clearly defines a signaling path.

   All current IP-based SCIP devices deployed by the US and NATO 
   partners support "scip" as a media subtype. However, the SCIP 
   standards are not available to the general public. Registration of
   "scip" as an IETF registered media subtype provides a globally 
   available common reference for equipment manufacturers. An RFC 
   defining SCIP as a media subtype informs network equipment 
   manufacturers about SCIP protocol and its purpose in the context  
   of RTP transport. It enables network equipment manufacturers to 
   include "scip" as a known audio/video media subtype in their 
   configuration settings. The RFC defining SCIP also enables network
   administrators to define and implement a compatible security 
   policy.


Person to contact for further information:

   1. Name: Michael Faller and Daniel Hanson 
   2. Email: michael.faller&gd-ms.com and dan.hanson&gd-ms.com

Intended usage: Common

   Government and Military

Authors:

   Michael Faller - michael.faller&gd-ms.com 
   Daniel Hanson - dan.hanson&gd-ms.com

Change controller:

   SCIP Working Group - ncia.cis3&ncia.nato.int