(per RFC4425)

Type name:  video

Subtype name:  vc1

Required parameters:

      profile:
         The value is an integer identifying the VC-1 profile.  The
         following values are defined:

         0: Simple profile
         1: Main profile
         3: Advanced profile

         If the profile parameter is used to indicate properties of a
         coded bit stream, it indicates the VC-1 profile that a
         decoder has to support when it decodes the bit stream.

         If the profile parameter is used for capability exchange or
         in a session setup procedure, it indicates the VC-1 profile
         that the codec supports.

         level:
         The value is an integer that specifies the level of the VC-1
         profile.

         For Advanced profile, valid values are 0 through 4, which
         correspond to levels L0 through L4, respectively.  For
         Simple and Main profiles, the following values are defined:

         1: Low Level
         2: Medium Level
         3: High Level (only valid for Main profile)

         If the level parameter is used to indicate properties of a
         coded bit stream, it indicates the highest level of the VC-1
         profile that a decoder has to support when it decodes the
         bit stream.  Note that support for a level implies support
         for all numerically lower levels of the given profile.

         If the level parameter is used for capability exchange or in
         a session setup procedure, it indicates the highest level of
         the VC-1 profile that the codec supports.  See section 6.3
         of RFC 4425 for specific rules for how this parameter is
         used with the SDP Offer/Answer model.

Optional parameters:

      config:
         The value is a base16 [6] (hexadecimal) representation of an
         octet string that expresses the decoder initialization
         parameters.  Decoder initialization parameters are mapped
         onto the base16 octet string in an MSB-first basis.  The
         first bit of the decoder initialization parameters MUST be
         located at the MSB of the first octet.  If the decoder
         initialization parameters are not multiples of 8 bits, up to
         7 zero-valued padding bits MUST be added in the last octet
         to achieve octet alignment.

         For Simple and Main profiles, the decoder initialization
         parameters are STRUCT_C, as defined in Annex J of SMPTE 421M
         [1].

         For Advanced profile, the decoder initialization parameters
         are a sequence layer header directly followed by an entry-
         point header.  The two headers MUST be in EBDU format,
         meaning that they must include their Start Codes and must
         use the encapsulation method defined in Annex E of SMPTE
         421M [1].

      width:
         The value is an integer greater than zero, specifying the
         maximum horizontal size of the coded frames, in luma samples
         (pixels in the luma picture).

         For Simple and Main profiles, the value SHALL be identical
         to the actual horizontal size of the coded frames.

         For Advanced profile, the value SHALL be greater than, or
         equal to, the largest horizontal size of the coded frames.

         If this parameter is not specified, it defaults to the
         maximum horizontal size allowed by the specified profile and
         level.

      height:
         The value is an integer greater than zero, specifying the
         maximum vertical size of the coded frames, in luma samples
         (pixels in a progressively coded luma picture).

         For Simple and Main profiles, the value SHALL be identical
         to the actual vertical size of the coded frames.

         For Advanced profile, the value SHALL be greater than, or
         equal to, the largest vertical size of the coded frames.

         If this parameter is not specified, it defaults to the
         maximum vertical size allowed by the specified profile and
         level.

      bitrate:
         The value is an integer greater than zero, specifying the
         peak transmission rate of the coded bit stream in bits per
         second.  The number does not include the overhead caused by
         RTP encapsulation, i.e., it does not include the AU headers,
         or any of the RTP, UDP, or IP headers.

         If this parameter is not specified, it defaults to the
         maximum bit rate allowed by the specified profile and level.
         See the values for "RMax" in Annex D of SMPTE 421M [1].

      buffer:
         The value is an integer specifying the leaky bucket size, B,
         in milliseconds, required to contain a stream transmitted at
         the transmission rate specified by the bitrate parameter.
         This parameter is defined in the hypothetical reference
         decoder model for VC-1, in Annex C of SMPTE 421M [1].

         Note that this parameter relates to the codec bit stream
         only, and does not account for any buffering time that may
         be required to compensate for jitter in the network.

         If this parameter is not specified, it defaults to the
         maximum buffer size allowed by the specified profile and
         level.  See the values for "BMax" and "RMax" in Annex D of
         SMPTE 421M [1].

      framerate:
         The value is an integer greater than zero, specifying the
         maximum number of frames per second in the coded bit stream,
         multiplied by 1000 and rounded to the nearest integer value.
         For example, 30000/1001 (approximately 29.97) frames per
         second is represented as 29970.

         This parameter can be used to control resource allocation at
         the receiver.  For example, a receiver may choose to perform
         additional post-processing on decoded frames only if the
         frame rate is expected to be low.  The parameter MUST NOT be
         used for pacing of the rendering process, since the actual
         frame rate may differ from the specified value.

         If the parameter is not specified, it defaults to the
         maximum frame rate allowed by the specified profile and
         level.

      bpic:
         This parameter signals that B- and BI-pictures may be
         present when Advanced profile is used.  If this parameter is
         present, and B- or BI-pictures may be present in the coded
         bit stream, this parameter MUST be equal to 1.

         A value of 0 indicates that B- and BI-pictures SHALL NOT be
         present in the coded bit stream, even if the sequence layer
         header changes.  Inclusion of this parameter with a value of
         0 is RECOMMENDED, if neither B- nor BI-pictures are included
         in the coded bit stream.

         This parameter MUST NOT be used with Simple and Main
         profiles. For Main profile, the presence of B- and
         BI-pictures is indicated by the MAXBFRAMES field in STRUCT_C
         decoder initialization parameter.

         For Advanced profile, if this parameter is not specified, a
         value of 1 SHALL be assumed.

      mode:
         The value is an integer specifying the use of the sequence
         layer header and the entry-point header.  This parameter is
         only defined for Advanced profile.  The following values are
         defined:

         0: Both the sequence layer header and the entry-point header
            may change, and changed headers will be included in the
            RTP packets.
         1: The sequence layer header specified in the config
            parameter never changes.  The rules in section 4.8 of RFC
            4425 MUST be followed.
         3: The sequence layer header and the entry-point header
            specified in the config parameter never change.  The
            rules in section 4.9 of RFC 4425 MUST be followed.

         If the mode parameter is not specified, a value of 0 SHALL
         be assumed.  The mode parameter SHOULD be specified if modes
         1 or 3 apply to the VC-1 bit stream.

      max-width, max-height, max-bitrate, max-buffer, max-framerate:
         These parameters are defined for use in a capability
         exchange procedure.  The parameters do not signal properties
         of the coded bit stream, but rather upper limits or
         preferred values for the "width", "height", "bitrate",
         "buffer", and "framerate" parameters.  Section 6.3 of RFC
         4425 provides specific rules for how these parameters are
         used with the SDP Offer/Answer model.

         Receivers that signal support for a given profile and level
         MUST support the maximum values for these parameters for
         that profile and level.  For example, a receiver that
         indicates support for Main profile, Low level, must support
         a width of 352 luma samples and a height of 288 luma
         samples, even if this requires scaling the image to fit the
         resolution of a smaller display device.

         A receiver MAY use any of the max-width, max-height, max-
         bitrate, max-buffer, and max-framerate parameters to
         indicate preferred capabilities.  For example, a receiver
         may choose to specify values for max-width and max-height
         that match the resolution of its display device, since a bit
         stream encoded using those parameters would not need to be
         rescaled.

         If any of the max-width, max-height, max-bitrate, max-
         buffer, and max-framerate parameters signal a capability
         that is less than the required capabilities of the signaled
         profile and level, then the parameter SHALL be interpreted
         as a preferred value for that capability.

         Any of the parameters MAY also be used to signal
         capabilities that exceed the required capabilities of the
         signaled profile and level.  In that case, the parameter
         SHALL be interpreted as the maximum value that can be
         supported for that capability.

         When more than one parameter from the set (max-width,
         max-height, max-bitrate, max-buffer, and max-framerate) is
         present, all signaled capabilities MUST be supported
         simultaneously.

         A sender or receiver MUST NOT use these parameters to signal
         capabilities that meet the requirements of a higher level of
         the VC-1 profile than that specified in the "level"
         parameter, even if the sender or receiver can support all
         the properties of the higher level, except if specifying a
         higher level is not allowed due to other restrictions.  As
         an example of such a restriction, in the SDP Offer/Answer
         model, the value of the level parameter that can be used in
         an Answer is limited by what was specified in the Offer.

      max-width:
         The value is an integer greater than zero, specifying a
         horizontal size for the coded frames, in luma samples
         (pixels in the luma picture).  If the value is less than the
         maximum horizontal size allowed by the profile and level,
         then the value specifies the preferred horizontal size.
         Otherwise, it specifies the maximum horizontal size that is
         supported.

         If this parameter is not specified, it defaults to the
         maximum horizontal size allowed by the specified profile and
         level.

      max-height:
         The value is an integer greater than zero, specifying a
         vertical size for the coded frames, in luma samples (pixels
         in a progressively coded luma picture).  If the value is
         less than the maximum vertical size allowed by the profile
         and level, then the value specifies the preferred vertical
         size.  Otherwise, it specifies the maximum vertical size
         that is supported.

         If this parameter is not specified, it defaults to the
         maximum vertical size allowed by the specified profile and
         level.

      max-bitrate:
         The value is an integer greater than zero, specifying a peak
         transmission rate for the coded bit stream in bits per
         second.  The number does not include the overhead caused by
         RTP encapsulation, i.e., it does not include the AU headers,
         or any of the RTP, UDP, or IP headers.

         If the value is less than the maximum bit rate allowed by
         the profile and level, then the value specifies the
         preferred bit rate.  Otherwise, it specifies the maximum bit
         rate that is supported.

         If this parameter is not specified, it defaults to the
         maximum bit rate allowed by the specified profile and level.
         See the values for "RMax" in Annex D of SMPTE 421M [1].

      max-buffer:
         The value is an integer specifying a leaky bucket size, B,
         in milliseconds, required to contain a stream transmitted at
         the transmission rate specified by the max-bitrate
         parameter.  This parameter is defined in the hypothetical
         reference decoder model for VC-1, in Annex C of SMPTE 421M
         [1].

         Note that this parameter relates to the codec bit stream
         only and does not account for any buffering time that may be
         required to compensate for jitter in the network.

         If the value is less than the maximum leaky bucket size
         allowed by the max-bitrate parameter and the profile and
         level, then the value specifies the preferred leaky bucket
         size.  Otherwise, it specifies the maximum leaky bucket size
         that is supported for the bit rate specified by the max-
         bitrate parameter.

         If this parameter is not specified, it defaults to the
         maximum buffer size allowed by the specified profile and
         level.  See the values for "BMax" and "RMax" in Annex D of
         SMPTE 421M [1].

      max-framerate:
         The value is an integer greater than zero, specifying a
         number of frames per second for the coded bit stream.  The
         value is the frame rate multiplied by 1000 and rounded to
         the nearest integer value.  For example, 30000/1001
         (approximately 29.97) frames per second is represented as
         29970.

         If the value is less than the maximum frame rate allowed by
         the profile and level, then the value specifies the
         preferred frame rate.  Otherwise, it specifies the maximum
         frame rate that is supported.

         If the parameter is not specified, it defaults to the
         maximum frame rate allowed by the specified profile and
         level.

Encoding considerations:
         This media type is framed and contains binary data.

Security considerations:
         See Section 7 of RFC 4425.

Interoperability considerations:
        None.

Published specification:
        RFC 4425.

Applications that use this media type:
        Multimedia streaming and conferencing tools.

Additional Information:
        None.

Person & email address to contact for further information:
        Anders Klemets <anderskl&microsoft.com>
        IETF AVT working group.

Intended Usage:
        COMMON

Restrictions on usage:
        This media type depends on RTP framing; therefore, it is
        only defined for transfer via RTP [3].

Authors:
        Anders Klemets

Change controller:
        IETF Audio/Video Transport Working Group delegated from the
        IESG.