A. Submission Date: May 7th, 2024

B.1 Submission Type: [X] New RRTYPE [ ] Modification to RRTYPE
B.2 Kind of RR: [X] Data RR [ ] Meta-RR

C. Contact Information for submitter (will be publicly posted):
Name: Scott M. Johnson Email Address: scott&spacelypackets.com
International telephone number: +13868887311
Other contact handles:

D. Motivation for the new RRTYPE application.

Bundle Protocol (RFC 9171) defines Convergence-layer adapter (CLA)
as "a node component that sends and receives bundles on behalf of the
Bundle Protocol Agent, utilizing the services of some 'integrated'
protocol stack that is supported in one of the networks within which
the node is functionally located." Knowledge of these CLAs is an
inherent requirement for inter-nodal BP communications. The ability
to query the DNS for a given node's supported CLAs would add
significant utility to primarily terrestrial BP network operation.

E. Description of the proposed RR type.

A record using the proposed RRTYPE would consist of one character
string, specifiying one CLA per record entry. Multiple CLA
records could exist for any given domain, indicating support for
multiple CLA availability on the corresponding node. Examples of
potential CLA record strings include UDP4, UDP6, TCP4, TCP6,
LTPU4, LTPU6, DCCP, STCP4, and STCP6.

F. What existing RRTYPE or RRTYPEs come closest to filling that need
and why are they unsatisfactory?

The proposed CLA RRTYPE is most similar to TXT records, however
there are multiple uses for TXT record types, which would add
undue parsing burden to BP applications which seek to learn
about CLAs available at a given node on a given domain to
differentiate from other uses of the TXT RRTYPE. The use of
a CLA RRTYPE eliminates all ambiguity of purpose.

G. What mnemonic is requested for the new RRTYPE (optional)?

CLA

H. Does the requested RRTYPE make use of any existing IANA registry
or require the creation of a new IANA subregistry in DNS
Parameters?

Other than the addition of the CLA RRTYPE to the existing
"Resource Record (RR) TYPEs" IANA Registry, no modifications
are required.

I. Does the proposal require/expect any changes in DNS
servers/resolvers that prevent the new type from being processed
as an unknown RRTYPE (see [RFC3597])?

No.

J. Comments: