A. Submission Date:
2024-06-20

B.1 Submission Type: [✔] New RRTYPE [ ] Modification to RRTYPE
B.2 Kind of RR: [✔] Data RR [ ] Meta-RR

C. Contact Information for submitter (will be publicly posted):

Name: Paul Hoffman
Email Address: paul.hoffman&icann.org

D. Motivation for the new RRTYPE application.

Many people have a strong desire to associate the address of their
cryptocurrency wallets with a human-memorable name like a domain
name. Evidence of this desire is the popularity of alternative
name systems whose primary resolution is to wallet addresses.
This proposed RRtype would allow them to include their wallet
addresses in names in the global DNS.

E. Description of the proposed RR type.

The octets in the RDATA for this type are 0x20 through 0x7e,
inclusive, which are the printable ASCII characters plus the
ASCII space characters.
The wire format of the RDATA is:
<currency_abbrev> <space> <display_value_of_address>
The display format for this RRtype is identical to the wire format
because the wire format can unambiguously also be he display
format.

The first field are the commonly-used abbreviation for the type of
cryptocurrency held in the wallet. There is no standard registry for the
names or abbreviations for those names, and they appear to be chosen
informally on a first-come-first-served basis in the industry. The
abbreviations so far all use uppercase ASCII characters and hyphens,
never spaces. Some common abbreviations include "BTC" for Bitcoin, "ETH"
for Ethereum, and "MATIC" for Polygon.

The space character is an ASCII space, U+0020.

The display value is a string of ASCII characters representing a wallet
address, which is a human-readable version of a representation of a
public key. The format for this is defined by the community that
typically uses that cryptocurrency. There is no single standard for this
representation, even within a single cryptocurrency; that is, some
cryptocurrencies have more than one representation. For example, some
cryptocurrencies use hex encoding of part of a hash, some use variants
of Base64, and yet others have made up their own representation.
It is likely that this value will be pasted by users from other
programs such as digital wallets.

None of the characters in either the <currency_abbrev> or
<display_value_of_address> are special. For example, a backslash
character (U+005C) does not act as an escape character of any sort.

F. What existing RRTYPE or RRTYPEs come closest to filling that need
and why are they unsatisfactory?

TXT records are currently being used, but without any agreement
on how to indicate that a particular text record is for a particular
cryptocurrency wallet type. This new RRtype would help relieve the
overloading of TXT records.

G. What mnemonic is requested for the new RRTYPE (optional)?

WALLET would be preferred. It matches the common usage among
cryptocurrency users, and is not similar to any currently-assigned
RRTYPE.

H. Does the requested RRTYPE make use of any existing IANA registry
or require the creation of a new IANA subregistry in DNS
Parameters?

No. There is no need for an IANA registry of cryptocurrency names or
abbreviations for this RRtype because the cryptocurrency community
already has an informal agreement on these (although there is no
IANA-like registry for the names or abbreviations in that community.)
Similarly, there is no need for an IANA registry for display formats
because there is agreement without standardization within the community
that uses them.

I. Does the proposal require/expect any changes in DNS
servers/resolvers that prevent the new type from being processed
as an unknown RRTYPE (see [RFC3597])?

No.

J. Comments:

This application is for a fairly trivial new RRTYPE that might or might
not become popular, but would certainly be used at least in the short
term.

There is no mention of the need for DNSSEC in the application because
the trust model for using wallet addresses in unsigned zones is the same
as for using wallet addresses in untrusted blockchain applications.
