(registered 2017-05-12, last updated 2017-05-12)

Type name: model

Subtype name: 3mf

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters: N/A

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations:

3MF files can be very large, particularly after decompression, which
could fill a filesystem and cause a denial of service or system 
failure. This media type does not employ any sort of active or 
executable content, nor does it provide direct control of device 
settings or safety interlocks. Neither privacy nor integrity 
protection is provided by the media type itself; if these protections 
are needed they must be implemented externally.
Authentication, access control, and privacy/integrity are normally 
handled by the Internet Printing Protocol, Hyper-Text Transport 
Protocol, and Transport Layer Security.

3MF files utilize a ZIP container to embed multiple types of files. 
The security considerations for the deflate compression format used in 
ZIP files are described in section 6 of "DEFLATE Compressed Data 
Format Specification version 1.3" [RFC1951].

The security considerations for embedded XML content are described in
section 10 of "XML Media Types" [RFC7303]. Each XML namespace 
utilized may raise additional security considerations.

The security considerations for embedded PNG image content are 
described in section 8.5 of "PNG: Portable Network 
Graphics" [RFC2083].

Interoperability considerations:

Published specification: http://www.3mf.io/specification/

Applications that use this media type: 3D modeling and slicing 
software

Fragment identifier considerations:

Additional information:

Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A

Magic number(s): N/A

File extension(s): 3mf

Macintosh file type code(s): N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information: Michael 
Sweet <msweet&apple.com>

Intended usage: COMMON

Restrictions on usage: N/A

Author: The Printer Working Group, c/o The IEEE Industry Standards and
Technology Organization, 445 Hoes Lane, Piscataway, NJ 08854, USA

Change controller: 3MF Consortium, 401 Edgewater Place, Suite 600,
Wakefield, MA 01880

Provisional registration? (standards tree only): No