(registered 2022-03-08, last updated 2022-03-08)

Media type name: model

Media subtype name: prc

Required parameters: None

Optional parameters: None

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations: PRC, like many 3D models, may contain 
   sensitive industrial or intellectual property information. PRC 
   schemas may also be considered to have some "active content" 
   capabilities, but PRC does not support general-purpose programming 
   languages. For example, EPRCSchema_For may lead to very large or 
   infinite loops; EPRCSchema_Ptr_Type may introduce cyclic type 
   references which might lead to stack overflow; and 
   EPRCSchema_Operator_DIV may cause division by zero or other 
   runtime exceptions. PRC does not support external references, nor 
   inherent data integrity or security mechanisms within the file 
   format. PRC also internally uses Flate/ZIP compression and many 3D 
   models can be large and complex so protection against resource 
   exhaustion is required.

Interoperability considerations: A Product Representation Compact 
   (PRC) file is a platform independent sequential binary data 
   stream, designed for portability and efficient loading. Practical 
   usage of PRC as an interactive 3D format can require reasonable 
   computing resources and is dependent on the size and complexity of 
   each specific 3D model. The PRC specification defines 
   comprehensive Version management (clause 5.2) for reading and 
   authoring with application unique identifiers, as well as support 
   for private Userdata (clause 5.5) and internal PRC Schemas for 
   managing forward and backwards compatibility for features from 
   different versions (clause 6.3).

Published specification: PRC is defined by "ISO 14739-1. Document 
   management - 3D use of Product Representation Compact (PRC) format 
   - Part 1: PRC 10001": https://www.iso.org/standard/54948.html

Applications which use this media: PRC is a file format representing 
   the geometry, physical structure, and manufacturing metadata for a 
   3D model. It can be imported and exported from 3D and CAD packages 
   for 3D visualization and data exchange. It is also one of the 3D 
   data formats specified for use in PDF 2.0, as defined by ISO 
   32000-2. For more information refer to 
   https://www.loc.gov/preservation/digital/formats/fdd/fdd000496.shtml

Fragment identifier considerations: None

Restrictions on usage: None

Additional information:

   1. Deprecated alias names for this type: n/a
   2. Magic number(s): First 3 bytes are Hex: 50 52 43 (ASCII: "PRC") 
      as per ISO
   3. File extension(s): .prc
   4. Macintosh file type code: n/a
   5. Object Identifiers: n/a

General Comments: PRC is standardized by ISO Technical Committee 171 
   Sub-Committee 2 Working Group 7.

Person to contact for further information:

   1. Name: Betsy Fanning
   2. Email: betsy.fanning&pdfa.org

Intended usage: Common

   PRC is a 3D model format that can be embedded inside PDF 1.6 and 
   later files, and can be imported and exported from CAD and 3D 
   modelling applications.

Author/Change controller: Committee Manager for ISO TC 171 SC 2, 
   info&pdfa.org