(registered 2021-07-07, last updated 2021-07-07)

Name: Kenneth Swope

Email: kenneth.a.swope&boeing.com

Media type name: model

Media subtype name: step+zip

Required parameters: none

Optional parameters: none

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations: This media type does not allow for any kind 
   of executable or active content and is nonextensible. As such, the 
   data elements currently defined in ISO 10303-21 do not in 
   themselves create security risks beyond the information disclosed, 
   since the elements are not used to induce any behavior by the 
   recipient software application.

   Security considerations that apply to application/zip also apply 
   to this media type.

Interoperability considerations: The semantics is given by an EXPRESS 
   schema which is referenced in the header section of an exchange 
   file.

Published specification: The specification is published in various 
   parts of the ISO 10303 series. The most recent specification is 
   available from the ISO website or from National standardization 
   bodies for a nominal fee.

Applications which use this media: Applications that display, create, 
   edit, import, or export ISO 10303 STEP models, which are encoded 
   in the exchange syntax defined in ISO 10303-21 and compressed as 
   ZIP, use this media type. While the ISO 10303-21 syntax is also 
   used in application/p21+zip, model/step+zip provides assurance 
   that the model represented is a STEP model.

Fragment identifier considerations: none

Restrictions on usage: none

Additional information:

   1. Deprecated alias names for this type: n/a
   2. Magic number(s): n/a
   3. File extension(s): .stpz
   4. Macintosh file type code: n/a
   5. Object Identifiers: n/a

General Comments: The ISO standard that specifies this type can be 
   found at: https://www.iso.org/standard/63141.html?browse=tc

Person to contact for further information:

   1. Name: Dana Tripp
   2. Email: trippdsc4&gmail.com

Intended usage: Common


Author/Change controller: Committee Manager, ISO/TC 184/SC 4 - 
   Industrial Data