
Namespace ID:  urn-1 

Registration Information:

  Registration version number: 1
  Registration date: TBD

Declared registrant of the namespace:

  Required: Michael Mealling <michael&bailey.dscga.com>

Declaration of syntactic structure:

  The namespace is a flat space of digits (0-9), lowercase 
  letters (a-z) and a hyphen (-) character that may occur in
  any order. There is no structure to the namespace and any 
  attempt to infer one is in error.

Relevant ancillary documentation: None

Identifier uniqueness considerations:

  The namespace owner will maintain a list of all assigned names
  will consult this list during the assignment process of any new
  names. The namespace structure does allow the use of a timestamp
  which is a uniqueness method that may be used in the future.

Identifier persistence considerations:

  The namespace owner will endeavor to ensure a quality of service
  that provides that the namespace is usable for the lifetime of
  the namespace owner. In the case of the namespace owners death or
  any change in the owners ability to ensure this level of service,
  the list of assigned names will be made publicly available so that
  archive services may continue to provide some level of service.

Process of identifier assignment:

  The assignment process is a completely closed process.

Process for identifier resolution:

  The names assigned in this space will be resolvable via the
  URI Resolution via DDDS system or any new systems for URN
  resolution that may appear in the future.

Rules for Lexical Equivalence:

  The rules for lexical equivalence are that two names are
  lexically equivalent if they match character for character
  in a case sensitive manner with every character being
  significant.

Conformance with URN Syntax:

  Since this is a novel namespace, there are no URN syntax conformance

  issues associated with this space.

Validation mechanism:

  Beyond the specified resolution mechanism there is no specific
  validation mechanism.

Scope:

  The scope of the names in this namespace is global. The names
  in the namespace will be globally resolvable. Access to the resource
  named may not be but the resolution of the name to some authentication
  mechanism is at least globally available. While the assignment
  process is closed, the use of the names and their resources are
  specifically meant to be open and globally available. The reason the
  namespace owner is registering a public URN namespace is to
  ensure the long term use of the public resources that are maintained
  by the namespace owner for the Internet at large.

(02/23/01)

[]

