A. Submission Date: 2019-01-25

B.1 Submission Type:
[x] New RRTYPE [ ] Modification to RRTYPE
B.2 Kind of RR:
[x] Data RR [ ] Meta-RR

C. Contact Information for submitter (will be publicly posted):
Name: Jake Holland
Email Address: jakeholland.net&gmail.com
International telephone number: +1-626-486-3706
Other contact handles: jholland&akamai.com

D. Motivation for the new RRTYPE application.
It provides a bootstrap so AMT (RFC 7450) gateways can discover
an AMT relay that can receive multicast traffic from a specific source,
in order to signal multicast group membership and receive multicast
traffic over a unicast tunnel using AMT.

E. Description of the proposed RR type.
This description can be provided in-line in the template, as an
attachment, or with a publicly available URL.
Please see draft-ietf-mboned-driad-amt-discovery.

F. What existing RRTYPE or RRTYPEs come closest to filling that need
and why are they unsatisfactory?
Some similar concepts appear in IPSECKEY, as described in
Section 1.2 of [RFC4025]. The IPSECKEY RRType is unsatisfactory
because it refers to IPSec Keys instead of to AMT relays, but
the motivating considerations for using reverse IP and for
providing a precedence are similar--an AMT gateway often
has access to a source address for a multicast (S,G), but does
not have access to a relay address that can receive multicast
traffic from the source, without administrative configuration.

Defining a format for a TXT record could serve the need for AMT
relay discovery semantics, but Section 5 of [RFC5507] provides a
compelling argument for requesting a new RRType instead.

G. What mnemonic is requested for the new RRTYPE (optional)?
AMTRELAY

H. Does the requested RRTYPE make use of any existing IANA registry
or require the creation of a new IANA subregistry in DNS
Parameters?
Yes, IANA is requested to create a subregistry named "AMT Relay
Type Field" in a "AMTRELAY Resource Record Parameters" registry.
The field values are defined in Section 4.2.3 and Section 4.2.4,
and a summary table is given in Section 5.

I. Does the proposal require/expect any changes in DNS
servers/resolvers that prevent the new type from being processed
as an unknown RRTYPE (see RFC3597)?
No.

J. Comments:
It may be worth noting that the gateway type field from Section 2.3 of
[RFC4025] and Section 2.5 of [RFC4025] is very similar to the
Relay Type field in this request. I tentatively assume that trying to
re-use that sub-registry is a worse idea than duplicating it, but I'll
invite others to consider the question and voice an opinion, in case
there is a different consensus.
https://www.ietf.org/assignments/ipseckey-rr-parameters