(last updated 2011-11-14)

URI scheme name.
    com-eventbrite-attendee

Status.
    provisional

URI scheme syntax.
    uri = "com-eventbrite-attendee:" method [ "?" query ]
    method = "resetpassword" / "tickets"

    Example:

        com-eventbrite-attendee:resetpassword?email=user%40domain.com&token=DEADBEEF

URI scheme semantics.
    This scheme is intended to be used by operating systems that have the
    Eventbrite Attendee application installed. When a URI with
    this scheme is encountered it is expected that the operating system
    launches the Eventbrite Attendee application with the method and
    query parameters specified in the URI.

    The exact semantics for how URL information is communicated to the
    Eventbrite Attendee app may vary on an operating system basis. The
    expectation is simply that the operating system follows its own
    conventions for passing the method and query parameters into the
    application.

Encoding considerations.
    The scheme and method portions of this proposed URI avoid encoding
    issues by limiting itself to a subset of ASCII.

    The query portion of a com-eventbrite-attendee URI shall be encoded
    according to the rules in RFC 3986.

Applications/protocols that use this URI scheme name.

    - Eventbrite Attendee for iOS
    - Eventbrite Attendee for Android

Interoperability considerations.
    none.

Security considerations.
    Against recommendations in RFC 3986 section 7.5 a
    com-eventbrite-attendee: URI may be used to transmit sensitive
    information. For example, it may be used to communicate a password
    reset token in email for a user following a "Forgot your password"
    flow. Though this token may have transmitted over insecure channels
    on its way to the application care must still be taken by
    application developers to not divulge this secret.

    RFC 3986 sections 7.2 and 7.5 apply

Contact.
    Bob Van Zant
    Eventbrite
    651 Brannan St
    San Francisco, CA 94103
    USA

    EMail: bob at eventbrite.com

Author/Change controller.
    Bob Van Zant

References.

    Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter, "Uniform
    Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax", STD 66, RFC 3986,
    January 2005.

(file created 2011-11-14)