(registered 2016-11-28, last updated 2016-11-28)

Scheme name: pwid

Status: Provisional

Applications/protocols that use this scheme name: None yet

Contact:

Name:  Eld Zierau
Addr.: The Royal Library, Digital Preservation Dept.
        P.O. Box 2149, 1016 Copenhagen K, Denmark
Phone: (+45) 9132 4690 
Email: elzi&kb.dk

Change controller:

Name:  Eld Zierau
Addr.: The Royal Library, Digital Preservation Dept.
         P.O. Box 2149, 1016 Copenhagen K, Denmark
Phone: (+45) 9132 4690 
Email: elzi&kb.dk

Description:
An RFC for the pwid URI will be submitted before end of 2016 with more 
information. Below is given a short description of the pwids history 
and the motivation for creating it.

The suggested pwid (Persistent Web IDentifier) URI scheme described
here origins from analysis and description in an iPres 2016 paper 
[IPRES] "Persistent Web References - Best Practices and New 
Suggestions", and reflects the various comments and inputs that
resulted from presentation of this paper. The pwid URI was originally 
named wpid, but the named has changed as a result of comments to the
paper and the presentation (as described below).

The motivation for defining a pwid is the growing challenge of 
references to web resources, which are poorly supported in citation 
guidelines. Citation guidelines generally don’t cover general and 
persistent referencing techniques for non-controlled web resources. 
Controlled web references that are registered by Persistent Identifier 
systems (like DOI [DOI]) may be covered well. However, an increasing 
number of references point to resources that only has existed on the 
web, and are not covered by controlled resources. Such web referencing 
is highly relevant and crucial for various research fields. For example 
blogs that shows out to have a historical impact.

Today there are different ways to refer to non-controlled references:
* By specifying http/https address and date it was visited
* Via Citation services constructs citation http/https addresses
  that are not following a general scheme and that will change or be
  lost in case the citation service change domain, service
* Via Web Archive http/https addresses can only be used for open web
  archives. Furthermore, Web archive http/https addresses are not
  following a general scheme, and they will change or be lost in
  case the web archive service changes domain, or changes path to
  the web archive service

Http/https address and date is in no way persistent, and is the main
reason for studies showing that a large percentage of links in
research studies are dead after a relatively short period. Citation
services can sometimes be used, but responsibility of preservation
and collection is not fully clear, and they often use http/https
address shorteners for access, which complicates preservation of
source and metadata for source even more.

Finally, there are the web archives that offer access openly or
locally, but where access http/https addresses depends on domains for
the web archive as well as differing paths to their access service.
The ’pwid’ URI Scheme is another step in facilitate, support, and
standardize the problem of persistent web references to resources in
web archives. Accessing a referenced web resource will require APIs
from web archives no matter whether they are open web archive or not.
There are different solutions for resolving of a pwid URI, which
needs to be investigated and implemented as use and support of the
’pwid’ URI evolves.

According to RFC 3986 [RFC3986], a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)
is "a compact sequence of characters that identifies an abstract or
physical resource". The pwid URI Scheme defined in this document
identifies web archive resources (abstract resources) in a general,
global, stainable, humanly readable and technology agnostic way. An
example of such a pwid URI follows:
  
  pwid:archive.org:2016-01-22T11.20.29Z_page:http://www.dr.dk

In this example the domain of the archive has been used as
identifier. However, an archive identifier does NOT need to be a
domain. The choice in the example is only used in order to have a 
short archive identifier that is already associated with the archive.

For the sake of usability and sustainability, the definition of the
pwid URI scheme is focused on only having the minimum required
information in order to precisely identify a resource in an arbitrary
web archive.

The pwid URI scheme allows identification of web archive resources
in a general, global, sustainable, humanly readable and technology
agnostic way. No matter whether it will become resolvable, it can be
used at any time to identify the web archive resource, as long as the
material exists.

The pwid is defined as a URI as there are great potentials for
making it resolvable. This means it could function as a URN, but is
not defined as such as the ambition is to make it resolvable. At the
same time the pwid definition can enjoy the same common syntactic,
semantic, and shared language benefits that the URI presentation
confers.

The interest for this new pwid URI scheme has already been shown, a
long paper about the invention of the pwid URI "Persistent Web
References - Best Practices and New Suggestions" was accepted for the
iPres 2016 conference and nominated as best paper.

There have been a lot of good feedback to the paper which is
incorporated in this scheme specification. The most notable changes
are:
* The name of the scheme is changed from "wpid" to "pwid" for the
  following reasons
  - There was a concern that wpid was interpreted as a PID related
    to a PID-system as e.g. the DOI. All though PID does not have
    a precise definition that makes it wrong to call it a "wpid",
    the danger is that it is confused with PID systems which is not
    the intension
  - As the title of the iPres 2016 conference paper suggests, the
    name "Persistent Web Identifier" is more straightforward than
    "Web Persistent Identifier"
* As commented at the presentation of the paper, there may be other
  types of web archive materials than just URIs, e.g. snapshots, web
  recordings and corpus specifications. Therefore the pwid RI scheme
  has been extended in order to cover such cases as well
* In order to increase the readability there are some changes in the
  syntax of a pwid URI.

There is no question about the need for a standard to address web
materials meeting precision and persistency issues on par precision
in with traditional references for analogue material. The interest
for the pwid URI indicates that this is a recognized issue, and
that the pwid URI can fill a gap.

The pwid URI will benefit from becoming resolvable to some extent,
but as a start it has a value even without being resolvable.   

References:
[IPRES]   Zierau, E., Nyvang, C., and T. Kromann, "Persistent Web
          References - Best Practices and New Suggestions", October
          2016, <http://www.ipres2016.ch/frontend/organizers/media/
          iPRES2016/_PDF/
          IPR16.Proceedings_4_Web_Broschuere_Link.pdf>.
          In: proceedings of the 13th International Conference on
          Preservation of Digital Objects (iPres) 2016, pp. 237-246

[DOI]     International DOI Foundation, "The DOI System", 2016,
          <https://web.archive.org/web/20161020222635/
          https:/www.doi.org/>.
          pwid:archive.org:2016-10-20_22.26.35_page:https://www.doi.
          org/

[RFC3986] Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter, "Uniform
          Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax", STD 66,
          RFC 3986, DOI 10.17487/RFC3986, January 2005,
          <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>.
