(registered 2014-09-16, last updated 2014-12-24)

URI scheme name:  rtmfp

Status:  provisional

URI scheme syntax:

   rtmfp-uri-scheme = "rtmfp:"
                    / "rtmfp://" host [ ":" port ] path-abempty

URI scheme semantics:  The first form is used in the APIs of some
   implementations to indicate instantiation of an RTMFP client
   according to this memo, but without connecting to a server.  Such
   an instantiation might be used for pure peer-to-peer
   communication.

   The second form provides location information for the server to
   which to connect, and optional additional information to pass to
   the server.  The only operation for this URI form is to connect to
   a server (initial candidate address(es) for which are named by
   host and port) according to Section 5.3.  The UDP port for initial
   candidate addresses, if not specified, is 1935.  If the host is a
   reg-name, the initial candidate address set SHOULD comprise all
   IPv4 and IPv6 addresses to which reg-name resolves.  The semantics
   of path-abempty are specific to the server.  Connections are made
   using RTMFP as specified by this memo.

Encoding considerations:  The path-abempty component represents
   textual data consisting of characters from the Universal Character
   Set. This component SHOULD be encoded according to Section 2.5 of
   RFC 3986.

Applications/protocols that use this URI scheme name:  The Flash
   runtime (including Flash Player) from Adobe Systems Incorporated,
   communication servers such as Adobe Media Server, and
   interoperable clients and servers provided by other parties, using
   RTMFP according to this memo.

Interoperability considerations:  This scheme requires use of RTMFP
   as defined by RFC 7016 in the manner described by this memo.

Security considerations:  See Security Considerations (Section 7) in
   this memo.

Contact:  Michael Thornburgh, Adobe Systems Incorporated,
   <mthornbu&adobe.com>.

Author/Change controller:  Michael Thornburgh, Adobe Systems
   Incorporated, <mthornbu&adobe.com>.

References:
   Thornburgh, M., "Adobe's Secure Real-Time Media Flow Protocol",
   RFC 7016, November 2013.

   Thornburgh, M., "Adobe's RTMFP Profile for Flash Communication", 
   RFC 7425.