          DNS RRTYPE PARAMETER ALLOCATION TEMPLATE

      When ready for formal consideration, this template is
      to be submitted to IANA for processing by emailing the
      template to dns-rrtype-applications at ietf.org.

      A.    Submission Date:  To be determined.

      B.    Submission Type:
            [X] New RRTYPE

      C.    Contact Information for submitter:
               Name:  R. Atkinson
               Email Address: rja.lists at gmail.com
               International telephone number: unlisted
               Other contact handles:

      D.    Motivation for the new RRTYPE application?

         Support for an experimental set of IP extensions
         that replace the concept of an "IP Address" with
         distinct "Locator" and "Identifier" values.

      E.    Description of the proposed RR type.

            Please see:

              http://tools.ietf.org/id/draft-irtf-rrg-ilnp-dns-05.txt

            for a full description.

      F.    What existing RRTYPE or RRTYPEs come closest to filling
            that need and why are they unsatisfactory?

      There is no RRTYPE that fulfils the need due to the
      new semantics of Locator and Identifier values.

         The AAAA record combines both Locator and Identifier,
         so has significantly different semantics than having
         separate L64 and NID record values.  The AAAA record also
         lacks scalability and flexibility in the context of the
         experimental protocol extensions that will use the NID
         and L64 records, as any valid NID record value for a node
         can be used on the wire with any valid L64 record value
         for the same node.

         The CNAME record is closest conceptually to an LP
         record, but a CNAME is a node name referral scheme,
         while the LP record is indicating that the given node
         has the same routing prefix as some other domain name,
         but does not necessarily have any other values that are
         the same.

     Lastly, the AAAA and CNAME RR Types lack a Preference
     field to rank responses.  Such Preference information
     is required for ILNP in order to support the use of multiple
     instances of NID, L32, L64 and LP records.

      G.    What mnemonic is requested for the new RRTYPE (optional)?

         As described in this draft, "NID", "L32", "L64", and "LP".

      H.    Does the requested RRTYPE make use of any existing IANA
            Registry or require the creation of a new IANA
            sub-registry in DNS Parameters?

         Existing registry of DNS Resource Record (RR) data TYPE
         values should be used.

      I.    Does the proposal require/expect any changes in DNS
            servers/resolvers that prevent the new type from being
            processed as an unknown RRTYPE (see [RFC3597]) ?

         No.

      J.    Comments:
           This document defines "ILNP-aware" DNS servers
           or DNS resolver as a DNS server (authoritative or recursive)
           that MAY include other ILNP RRTypes in the Additional
           section of a DNS response that match a QNAME (if
           size permits). This is to reduce the number of
           DNS stub resolver follow-up DNS queries. and only applies
           when the QTYPE is either NID, L32, L64, or LP.  There is no
           signalling mechanism for this Additional section
           processing, and this is believed to be compatible
           with existing non-ILNP-aware DNS servers and DNS stub
           resolvers.

           No changes are required for existing deployed
           DNS servers or DNS resolvers.

		[Expert note: as of approval of this request, the draft
		available at the URI in section E, above, was the most
		current.]  
