A. Submission Date:  2017-07-25

B.1 Submission Type:  [X] New RRTYPE  [ ] Modification to RRTYPE
B.2 Kind of RR:  [X] Data RR  [ ] Meta-RR

C. Contact Information for submitter (will be publicly posted):
   Name: Ray Bellis                 Email Address: ray&isc.org
   International telephone number:  +1 650 423 1423
   Other contact handles:

D. Motivation for the new RRTYPE application.
   Please keep this part at a high level to inform the Expert and
   reviewers about uses of the RRTYPE.  Most reviewers will be DNS
   experts that may have limited knowledge of your application space.

   The proposed RR is a data RR that facilitates an implementation of an
   architecture similar to the Digital Object Architecture (DOA) within
   the DNS.  Small objects may be contained directly within the RR, or
   the RR can contain a reference to the object's location (e.g. via a
   URL or Handle System handle).

E. Description of the proposed RR type.
   This description can be provided in-line in the template, as an
   attachment, or with a publicly available URL.

   See draft-durand-doa-over-dns-02

   NB: Whilst further updates to the draft text are likely, the RR
   format is considered stable.

F. What existing RRTYPE or RRTYPEs come closest to filling that need
   and why are they unsatisfactory?

   No existing RRTYPE fills that need.

G. What mnemonic is requested for the new RRTYPE (optional)?

   Note: If a mnemonic is not supplied, not allowed, or duplicates an
   existing RRTYPE or CLASS mnemonic, the Expert will assign a
   mnemonic.

   The request mnemonic is "DOA".

H. Does the requested RRTYPE make use of any existing IANA registry
   or require the creation of a new IANA subregistry in DNS
   Parameters?  If so, please indicate which registry is to be used
   or created.  If a new subregistry is needed, specify the
   allocation policy for it and its initial contents.  Also include
   what the modification procedures will be.

   Two subregistries are created, with initial contents and
   modification procedures described in the aforementioned I-D.

I. Does the proposal require/expect any changes in DNS
   servers/resolvers that prevent the new type from being processed
   as an unknown RRTYPE (see [RFC3597])?

   No changes or special processing are required.

J. Comments: